

                United States Court of Appeals
                    For the First Circuit
                                         

No. 96-1800

                  KEYSTONE SHIPPING COMPANY,

                    Plaintiff - Appellant,

                              v.

                  NEW ENGLAND POWER COMPANY,

                    Defendant - Appellee.

                                         

         APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

              FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS

      [Hon. George A. O'Toole, Jr., U.S. District Judge]                                                                   

                                         

                            Before

                      Cyr, Circuit Judge,                                                    
               Campbell, Senior Circuit Judge,                                                         
                  and Stahl, Circuit Judge.                                                      

                                         

Joseph D. Steinfield with whom Joshua A. Davis, C. Dylan Sanders,                                                                            
and Hill &amp; Barlow were on brief for appellant.                         
Stanley McDermott, III, with whom James D. Kleiner, Piper &amp;                                                                       
Marbury L.L.P., and John F. Sherman, III, were on brief for appellee.                                                

                                         

                        March 20, 1997
                                         

          STAHL, Circuit Judge.  This   case   involving   an                      STAHL, Circuit Judge.                                          

underlying dispute over who is to pay for some $14 million in

repairs  to  a coal  cargo ship  requires  us to  resolve one

question: whether claims  asserted by defendant-appellee  New

England  Power  Company  ("NEP") against  plaintiff-appellant

Keystone Shipping Co. ("Keystone")  are arbitrable.  We reach

two conclusions pointing  to the same result.  First, because

the  issue  has  already  been litigated  by  the  parties in

Massachusetts state court, it is precluded  from relitigation

under  the doctrine of issue preclusion.  Second, even if the

issue  were not precluded, we find that Keystone and NEP have

a  legally-enforceable agreement  to arbitrate  disputes like

the one here.  We thus affirm.

               Background and Prior Proceedings                           Background and Prior Proceedings                                                           

          In order to resolve this appeal we must  consider a

long series  of agreements and disputes  between Keystone and

NEP concerning  the S.S.  Energy Independence, now  named the

S.S.  Energy  Enterprise  ("the  Vessel").   The  Vessel  was

constructed in the  early 1980s  by the  New England  Collier

Company  ("NECCO"), an  unincorporated joint  venture between

Keystone   and  an   NEP   affiliate,   New  England   Energy

Incorporated  ("NEEI").  NEP, in  turn, chartered  the Vessel

from NECCO to deliver coal to its electric power plants.  The

joint  venture  agreement  and  the  NEP  time  charter  both

contained arbitration provisions.

                             -2-                                          2

          The relationship was not  an entirely happy one and

a  dispute between the  parties followed.   In 1987, Keystone

commenced arbitration  against NEEI under  the joint  venture

agreement,  while NEP  commenced  arbitration  against  NECCO

under the time  charter.  In a previous appeal to this Court,

we  held   that  the   two  arbitrations  were   amenable  to

consolidation by federal court order.  See New England Energy                                                                         

Inc. v. Keystone Shipping Co., 855 F.2d 1, 8 (1st Cir. 1988),                                         

cert. denied, 489 U.S. 1077 (1989).                        

          Before the arbitration  was concluded, the  parties

settled  their  differences  through  a  settlement agreement

signed  by Keystone, NEP, and NEEI in October 1989 ("the 1989

settlement  agreement").     Under  the  agreement's   terms,

ownership of the Vessel was to pass from NECCO to Keystone or

a  Keystone nominee.    The parties  further agreed  that the

Vessel's  new owner would time  charter the Vessel  to NEP on

"terms and conditions agreed  to by Keystone and NEP."   They

annexed  a draft of the proposed new time charter ("the draft

charter")  to  the  settlement  agreement.   Like  the  then-

operative  NEP time  charter, the  draft charter  contained a

sweeping arbitration provision.  In particular, Section 41 of

the draft  charter provided  that "[a]ny and  all differences

and disputes of whatsoever nature arising out of this Charter

which  cannot  be resolved  by the  parties  shall be  put to

                             -3-                                          3

arbitration in the  City of Boston  . . .  before a board  of

three persons."

          Keystone nominated Intercoastal Bulk Carriers, Inc.

("IBC")  to be the Vessel's  new owner.1   In accordance with

the settlement  agreement, NECCO sold  the Vessel to  IBC and

IBC,  in turn,  chartered the  Vessel to  NEP through  a time

charter agreement  executed by  IBC and  NEP on December  27,

1989 ("the 1989 time charter"). The executed time charter was

substantially similar  to the October draft  charter, but not

exactly  identical.   The arbitration  provisions in  the two

documents,  however, were alike  in all respects.   That same

day, December 27, Keystone and  IBC entered into a management

agreement  which provided  that  Keystone  would continue  to

manage the Vessel.

          The executed 1989 time  charter gave NEP the option

to purchase  the Vessel  and terminate  the charter with  six

months' prior,  written  notice.   In  1994, NEP  decided  to

exercise its  option,  resell  the  Vessel  to  International

Shipholding Corp. ("ISC"), and then recharter the Vessel from

ISC.  On October 27, 1994, NEP and ISC signed a Memorandum of

Agreement to this effect.  Several days later, on November 1,

1994, NEP notified  Keystone and IBC  that it was  exercising

its six-month purchase option and would buy the Vessel on May

                                                    

1.  Like Keystone itself, IBC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Chas. P. Kurz &amp; Co. ("Kurz").

                             -4-                                          4

1, 1995.  NEP concurrently demanded arbitration  of its right

to do this, because Keystone had previously communicated that

it would contest NEP's right to exercise the purchase option.

Keystone alleged  that in the negotiations  that produced the

1989 settlement  agreement NEP had represented  that it would

not  exercise  the time  charter's  purchase  option.   NEP's

exercise of  the option,  Keystone suggested,  indicated that

NEP had made misrepresentations at the time of the settlement

negotiations and had  violated Mass.  Gen. Laws ch.  93A.   A

three-member  arbitration  panel  was  convened  to  hear the

parties' dispute.

          On March  15, 1995,  the arbitration panel  decided

four  threshold  issues  concerning   NEP's  service  of  the

purchase notice and  demand for arbitration in  favor of NEP.

IBC  responded by filing an action  in federal district court

under  9 U.S.C.   10  to vacate the  arbitrators' ruling, but

the  court  dismissed  the   complaint  as  premature.    See                                                                         

Intercoastal Bulk  Carriers, Inc.  v. New England  Power Co.,                                                                        

No.  95-10880  RW2, (D.  Mass.  May 18,  1995).   Thereafter,

Keystone  and IBC resumed arbitration of the dispute.  On May

17,  1995,   Keystone  and  IBC  announced   that  they  were

withdrawing  the challenge  to  NEP's right  to exercise  the

purchase option  from arbitration,  leaving to the  panel the

issue  of whether NEP's actions had  violated Mass. Gen. Laws

ch. 93A.

                             -5-                                          5

          That  same  day,  May  17,  Keystone  sued  NEP  in

Massachusetts  state  court,  claiming  that  NEP   had  made

misrepresentations  during  the  negotiations over  the  1989

settlement agreement.  NEP moved to dismiss Keystone's claims

on  the ground  that they  were governed  by the  arbitration

provision of the 1989 time charter.  Keystone  responded that

its  claims against  NEP did  not arise  under the  1989 time

charter  signed by NEP and IBC, but  instead arose out of the

1989 settlement agreement, which  did not have an arbitration

provision.  The  state court  agreed with  NEP and  dismissed

Keystone's  complaint.   The state  court concluded  that the

settlement  agreement's provisions  meant  that Keystone  was

bound  by   the  1989  time  charter's   arbitration  clause,

notwithstanding  the fact  that Keystone  had not  signed the

charter, which  had been executed  by its  nominee, IBC,  and

NEP.  See Keystone Shipping Co. v. New England Power Co., No.                                                                    

95-1141-B  (Mass. Superior  Court,  Essex County,  August 17,

1995).

          The   dispute   thus  returned   to   the  original

arbitration panel, which, on  August 21, 1995, concluded that

NEP had the right to exercise the purchase option in the 1989

time charter. The arbitrators ordered IBC to sell the  Vessel

to  NEP.   Two  days later,  IBC filed  an action  in federal

district  court seeking  to  vacate the  arbitrators'  latest

rulings. See Intercoastal Bulk  Carriers, Inc. v. New England                                                                         

                             -6-                                          6

Power  Co., C.A.  No. 95-11881-GAO.   Shortly  thereafter, on                      

September 5, 1995, Keystone filed a notice of appeal from the

state court's decision  to dismiss its state  cause of action

against NEP.

          This  was the  state of  legal affairs  between the

parties when, on September 20, 1995, IBC and NEP entered into

a new settlement agreement ("the 1995 settlement agreement").

Under the  new settlement  agreement, IBC agreed  to transfer

the Vessel  in accordance with NEP's wishes to ISC's nominee,

Enterprise Ship  Co. ("Enterprise").   The parties  expressly

acknowledged that  the arbitration  clause found in  the 1989

time charter would govern the  new settlement agreement.  The

settlement agreement also provided  for the mutual release of

claims by  Keystone and IBC in  favor of NEP and  vice versa.

There was one exception  to this general release.   Exhibit B

of the agreement  expressly provided that NEP did not release

Keystone  and  IBC from  "claims, if  any,  by reason  of the

Vessel not being in class at the Closing based upon a  survey

.  . .  when the  Vessel is  drydocked immediately  after the

Closing."

          On  September 28,  1995,  the  Vessel's new  owner,

Enterprise,  took title and sent the Vessel to a shipyard for

the  agreed-upon  inspection.    The  survey   that  followed

revealed corrosion damage to the Vessel's bulkheads and cargo

holds  exceeding the  tolerances established by  the American

                             -7-                                          7

Bureau of Shipping,  thereby making  the Vessel  unseaworthy.

The ship inspectors refused to allow the Vessel to sail until

the needed repairs were completed.  NEP alleges that the bulk

of  the corrosion  damage was a  direct result  of Keystone's

failure to maintain  the Vessel.  The total cost to bring the

Vessel to standard is claimed to be approximately $14 million

dollars. NEP argues that Keystone and IBC are responsible for

much of that amount under the terms of the 1989 time charter.

          On December 20, 1995, NEP notified  the arbitration

panel  that  it  desired  to  arbitrate its  claims  for  the

Vessel's  repair costs  against Keystone  and IBC.   Keystone

denied that it was required to arbitrate NEP's claims, and on

February  27,  1996  filed  suit in  federal  district  court

seeking a stay of arbitration pursuant to Mass. Gen. Laws ch.

251,    2(b).  NEP cross-moved  under the Federal Arbitration

Act,  9 U.S.C.   4, to compel  arbitration.  On May 24, 1996,

the district court granted NEP's motion to compel, concluding

that the  arbitrability of NEP's claims  against Keystone was

an issue  that had  been previously decided  in Massachusetts

state court, and, in  any event, was the result  compelled by

the merits.  This appeal ensued.

                      Standard of Review                                  Standard of Review                                                    

          We review de novo the district  court's application                                       

of   the  doctrine   of   issue  preclusion   because  "[t]he

applicability vel non of  preclusion principles is a question                                 

                             -8-                                          8

of law."  Monarch Life Ins. Co. v. Ropes &amp; Gray, 65 F.3d 973,                                                           

978 (1st Cir. 1995).  Accordingly, "[n]o special deference is

owed to the district court's determination."  Grella v. Salem                                                                         

Five Cent Sav. Bank, 42 F.3d 26, 30 (1st Cir. 1994).                               

          Similarly,   we   exercise   plenary  review   over

determinations  regarding  arbitrability.    "[A]rbitrability

depends on  contract interpretation,  which is a  question of

law."  PaineWebber Inc.  v. Elahi, 87 F.3d 589, 592 (1st Cir.                                             

1996) (construing Commercial Union  Ins. Co. v. Gilbane Bldg.                                                                         

Co., 992 F.2d 386, 388 (1st Cir. 1993)).               

                The Issue Preclusion Question                            The Issue Preclusion Question                                                         

          In  issuing its  order to  compel  arbitration, the

district court  concluded that the Massachusetts  state court

judgment precludes Keystone from relitigating the question of

arbitrability  under  the  1989  time   charter.  On  appeal,

Keystone maintains  that  the district  court misapplied  the

issue preclusion doctrine.  We disagree.

          Initially, we  note  that  "[t]he  full  faith  and

credit  statute, 28 U.S.C.    1738, requires us  to give 'the

same preclusive effect to state court judgments -- both as to

claims and issues previously adjudicated -- as would be given

in  the state court system in which the federal court sits.'"

Kyricopoulos  v. Town of Orleans,  967 F.2d 14,  16 (1st Cir.                                            

1992)  (per curiam)  (quoting Willhauck  v. Halpin,  953 F.2d                                                              

689, 704 (1st  Cir. 1991)).   Massachusetts law thus  governs

                             -9-                                          9

the  preclusion  question in  this  case.   However,  we have

previously  recognized that  Massachusetts courts  "apply the

doctrine  of  issue  preclusion  in  a  traditional  manner."

Willhauck, 953 F.2d at 705 (citing Martin v. Ring, 514 N.E.2d                                                             

663, 664 (Mass. 1987); Fireside  Motors, Inc. v. Nissan Motor                                                                         

Corp., 479 N.E.2d 1386  (Mass. 1985); Restatement (Second) of                 

Judgments   27  (1982)).   Because our cases  apply the  same

traditional  preclusion  principles that  would control  in a

Massachusetts court, our previous pronouncements in this area

of law are persuasive.

          "The principle  of  collateral estoppel,  or  issue

preclusion,"  we have  explained, "bars  relitigation  of any

factual or legal issue that was actually decided in  previous                                                    

litigation 'between  the parties,  whether on  the same  or a

different  claim.'"  Grella, 42 F.3d at 30 (quoting Dennis v.                                                                      

Rhode Island Hosp. Trust,  744 F.2d 893, 899 (1st  Cir. 1984)                                    

(quoting  Restatement (Second)  of  Judgments    27 (1982))).

When the parties in a subsequent action are the same as those

in a prior  one, a  party seeking to  invoke the doctrine  of

issue preclusion needs to  establish four essential elements:

"(1) the  issue sought to  be precluded must  be the same  as

that  involved in the prior  action; (2) the  issue must have

been  actually  litigated;  (3)  the  issue  must  have  been

determined by a valid and binding final judgment; and (4) the

determination of the  issue must have  been essential to  the

                             -10-                                          10

judgment."   Grella, 42 F.3d  at 30; accord Ropes  &amp; Gray, 65                                                                     

F.3d at  981.   Each  of these  elements  is present  in  the

instant case.

          First,  the arbitrability  of NEP's claims  in this

case raises the same issue  raised in the Massachusetts state

cause of action.  Keystone ingeniously attempts to argue that

there  are two  separate and  distinct arbitrability  issues.

Keystone in particular maintains that the state court decided

that claims  against it  under the 1989  settlement agreement

were arbitrable, but that this case raises a different issue:

"whether claims  asserted by  NEP against Keystone  under the

1989 Time  Charter and 1995 NEP-IBC  Settlement Agreement are

arbitrable."   Keystone fails to persuade for  a very simple,

but  inescapable, reason.    The state  court concluded  that

Keystone was bound to  arbitrate claims concerning the Vessel

under the 1989  settlement agreement because (1) it was bound

to arbitrate such claims under the terms of the executed 1989

time charter,  and (2) Keystone  had expressly agreed  in the

1989 settlement agreement that  ownership of the Vessel would

pass  to Keystone or a Keystone nominee and that the Vessel's

new  owner would time charter the Vessel to NEP on "terms and

conditions  agreed   to  by  Keystone  and   NEP."    Because

arbitrability of  claims concerning  the Vessel was  one such

term and  condition in the  executed time charter,  the state

court  concluded  that  the  settlement  agreement's  express

                             -11-                                          11

language bound Keystone  to arbitrate  such claims.   Put  in

another  fashion, the state court found that Keystone, in the

1989 settlement agreement, had expressly  agreed that it or a

nominee would execute a time charter on terms and  conditions

agreeable to  Keystone, and thus  was bound to  arbitrate all

disputes because  the executed  time charter, like  the draft

charter attached to the settlement agreement and initialed on

every  page by  Keystone, made  claims concerning  the Vessel

arbitrable.

          Keystone's  argument  about  the   1995  settlement

agreement likewise  fails to persuade because  the parties to

the  agreement expressly  acknowledged  that the  arbitration

clause  found in the 1989 time charter would apply and govern

the  new settlement  agreement.   While it  is true  that the

settlement  agreement  provided  for  the mutual  release  of

claims by Keystone  and IBC in favor  of NEP and  vice versa,

the  agreement  expressly  carved  out an  exception  to  the

general  release for "claims, if any, by reason of the Vessel

not being  in class  at the  Closing."   Because NEP did  not

release  such claims, and because such claims arise under the

1989 settlement agreement and  are arbitrable under the terms

of  that   agreement  and   the  1989  time   charter,  their

arbitrability  in the  instant case  is the  very same  issue

previously  litigated  and  decided  in  Massachusetts  state

court.

                             -12-                                          12

          This point carries us to the  second element of the

issue preclusion  standard: the  issue raised here  on appeal

has  been  "actually litigated."    Grella,  42 F.3d  at  30.                                                      

Keystone  opposed NEP's  motion to dismiss  the Massachusetts

state cause  of action  before the  state court  with briefs,

affidavits, and at a motion hearing.  Keystone  feebly argues

that the state court should not have disposed of its cause of

action  by  motion,  but  instead should  have  conducted  an

evidentiary  hearing.      As  NEP   correctly   notes,   the

Massachusetts court  had before it  the relevant  contractual

documents, read  and heard  the litigants' opposing  views on

what meaning and effect should be afforded to those documents

and  the history  of  the parties'  arbitration efforts,  and

properly concluded  that the arbitrability question  could be

decided on  motion.  Well-settled principles  of law indicate

that  the  arbitrability  issue  was  actually litigated  for

preclusion purposes  because it was "subject  to an adversary

presentation and consequent judgment" that was not "a product

of  the parties'  consent  and is  a  final decision  on  the

merits."   Jack  H. Friedenthal  et  al., Civil  Procedure                                                                         

14.11, at 672, 673 (1985).

          We  thus  reach  the  third  and  fourth  essential

elements  of  collateral estoppel:  the  issue  sought to  be

precluded must  have been determined  by a valid  and binding

final judgment  and the issue's determination  must have been

                             -13-                                          13

essential to the judgment.  See Ropes &amp; Gray, 65 F.3d at 978;                                                        

Grella,  42  F.3d at  30.   Keystone  does not  challenge the                  

validity  and binding  nature  of the  state court  judgment.

Rather, Keystone argues that the state court judgment focused

on the 1989  settlement agreement and thus  did not determine

the arbitrability  of NEP's current claims  because the court

did not decide whether claims against Keystone are arbitrable

under  either the 1989  time charter  or the  1995 settlement

agreement.   This  argument is  nothing more than  a recycled

version  of the contention we have just rejected.  As we have

seen, the state  court determined that Keystone was  bound to

arbitrate under  the 1989  settlement agreement because  that

agreement contemplated the 1989 time charter, which contained

a  sweeping arbitration  clause.   The  arbitrability of  any

claims,  including NEP's  present ones,  under the  1989 time

charter was an essential component in the state court's prior

determination, even if it itself  was not the ultimate  issue

the court decided.   As we recently explained, an  "issue may

be  actually  litigated  and  resolved  'even if  it  is  not

explicitly  decided,' as long as it is logically necessary to

[the  court's] final decision."  Ropes &amp; Gray, 65 F.3d at 982                                                         

(quoting and  construing Grella, 42 F.3d  at 30-31) (emphasis                                           

in original omitted).

          Our  review  of  the  record  indicates  that   the

arbitrability of NEP's present  claims against Keystone is an

                             -14-                                          14

issue  that  has already  been litigated  and decided  by the

parties  in Massachusetts state court.  Under the doctrine of

issue preclusion,  Keystone cannot  seek to  undo or  redo in

federal court what has already been done in state court.   

            The Merits of the Arbitrability Issue                        The Merits of the Arbitrability Issue                                                             

          Our  decision  today  would  be the  same  even  if

principles  of collateral  estoppel  did  not bar  Keystone's

attempt  to  relitigate the  arbitrability  of  NEP's current

claims against it.  Our review of the record and the relevant

contractual  documents  contained therein  convinces  us that

Keystone  is bound  to arbitrate  NEP's claims  regarding the

Vessel.  In view  of the detailed factual discussion  we have

already undertaken, we do not feel it necessary to replay all

of  the evidence.    We shall  only  briefly explain  why  we

conclude  that Keystone is bound to  arbitrate such claims as

those NEP presently advances.

          Keystone entered into the 1989 settlement agreement

with NEP.   In that agreement, Keystone expressly agreed that

ownership  of the  Vessel  would pass  to  it or  a  Keystone

nominee  and that the  Vessel's new owner  would time charter

the  Vessel  to NEP  on "terms  and  conditions agreed  to by

Keystone and NEP." Attached to the settlement agreement was a

draft   of  the  contemplated   time  charter  that  Keystone

initialed  on every  page.   The  draft  charter contained  a

sweeping arbitration clause,  which provided that  "[a]ny and

                             -15-                                          15

all differences and disputes of whatsoever nature arising out

of this Charter which cannot be resolved by the parties shall

be  put  to arbitration  in the  City  of Boston."   Keystone

subsequently nominated IBC  to take title  to the Vessel  and

IBC, in turn,  executed the  time charter with  NEP that  was

contemplated in the 1989  settlement agreement.  The executed

time charter  contained the exact same  arbitration provision

as the  draft  attached to  the  settlement agreement.    The

inescapable  conclusion from the  foregoing is  that Keystone

agreed to time  charter the  Vessel to NEP,  via its  nominee

IBC,  under  the  terms  and conditions  established  in  the

executed  time charter,  including the  terms  and conditions

regarding the arbitrability of claims.

          The 1995  settlement agreement between IBC  and NEP

does not change this legal state of affairs.  Both parties to

the  agreement  expressly acknowledged  that  the arbitration

clause  found in the 1989  time charter would  govern the new

settlement  agreement.  While  the new  settlement  agreement

provided for the mutual release of claims by Keystone and IBC

in  favor  of  NEP  and vice  versa,  as  we  have  said, the

agreement  expressly  carves  out  one  exception  from  this

general  release. The  relevant  language could  not be  more

clear: NEP does not release Keystone and IBC from "claims, if

any, by  reason of  the  Vessel not  being  in class  at  the

Closing  based  upon a  survey  .  .  .  when the  Vessel  is

                             -16-                                          16

drydocked immediately  after the Closing."   Because NEP does

not release  such claims  against Keystone, and  because such

claims  arise under  the  1989 settlement  agreement and  are

arbitrable  under the  executed time charter  contemplated by

that earlier settlement agreement,  Keystone is obligated  to

arbitrate NEP's present claims.

          The fact  that Keystone itself did  not sign either

the 1989 time charter or the 1995 settlement agreement is not

dispositive.  Keystone is  bound by the terms and  conditions

of the executed  time charter because  of the commitments  it

undertook in  the 1989  settlement agreement.   And the  fact

that  Keystone is  not  a signatory  to  the 1995  settlement

agreement is  nothing more than a clever  red herring because

that  agreement  specifically   preserves  Keystone's   prior

exposure and liability  under the  1989 settlement  agreement

and  time  charter, for  "claims, if  any,  by reason  of the

Vessel not being in class at the Closing."

          Having weighed  the merits vel non  of this appeal,                                                        

we  find that the balance swings clearly  in NEP's favor.  We

conclude  that  NEP's  claims   are  arbitrable  and  decline

Keystone's invitation to visit additional corollary issues.

                          Conclusion                                      Conclusion                                                

          Principles    of    collateral   estoppel    (issue

preclusion) raise a bar to Keystone's attempt to litigate the

arbitrability of NEP's present  claims for recovery of repair

                             -17-                                          17

costs  to the Vessel.  Even if  this were not the case, NEP's

claims against  Keystone are  arbitrable as a  consequence of

Keystone's contractual  commitments.  We  thus conclude  that

the district court's order to compel arbitration was correct.

          Affirmed.  Costs to appellee.                      Affirmed.  Costs to appellee.

                             -18-                                          18
