                  United States Court of Appeals
                            FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT




No. 23-1301                                                  September Term, 2024
                                                             FILED ON: DECEMBER 13, 2024

METROHEALTH, INC., D/B/A HOSPITAL METROPOLITANO RIO PIEDRAS,
                    PETITIONER/CROSS-RESPONDENT

v.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD,
                  RESPONDENT/CROSS-PETITIONER


Consolidated with 23-1331


                 On Petition for Review and Cross-Application for Enforcement
                      of an Order of the National Labor Relations Board


       Before: HENDERSON and WALKER, Circuit Judges, and RANDOLPH, Senior Circuit Judge

                                       JUDGMENT

       We considered this case on the record and the briefs filed by the parties. See Fed. R. App.
P. 34(a)(2); D.C. Cir. R. 34(j). We fully considered the issues and determined that a published
opinion is unnecessary. See D.C. Cir. R. 36(d). For the reasons stated below, it is

       ORDERED and ADJUDGED that the petition for review is DENIED and the cross-
application for enforcement is GRANTED.

                                                I
        Metrohealth, Inc. (Metrohealth) operates a hospital in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Until being
laid off in 2021, union-represented employees in the Environmental Control Department (ECD)
cleaned the facility for over a decade. Each of the evaluated ECF employees earned “excellent”
annual appraisal scores in the two years before being laid off. José Talavera has been
Metrohealth’s Executive Director since January 2019. In that role, he directly supervised the ECD.
In January 2018, a report by the Puerto Rico Department of Health found deficiencies in infection
control at the hospital. According to his testimony, in 2019 Talavera found that the ECD’s
performance fell short of infection control standards but he did not put this in writing. Non-

                                                1
compliance with infection control standards could result in the hospital losing accreditation and
potentially going out of business. At some point in late 2020 or early 2021, Metrohealth began
using an outside contractor to cover some cleaning shifts because the ECD team was short-staffed.
From late February to early May 2021, Talavera received several internal reports of deficiencies
in the ECD’s cleaning standards. In March 2021, Metrohealth began requesting proposals to
subcontract the ECD’s work.
       On May 28, 2021, Metrohealth notified the union of its “intention to subcontract” the
ECD’s work and lay off ECD employees, offering “to negotiate . . . the effects” of that decision.
J.A. 276–77. Metrohealth stated that the decision was “in no way related to labor costs” but was
instead due to difficulties filling vacancies and “deficiencies” in the ECD’s services. Id. The
union objected the next business day, requesting information about the alleged deficiencies and
asking Metrohealth to postpone its decision until the parties could bargain. On June 7, Metrohealth
responded to the union’s requests for information and stated that documents relating to
performance deficiencies would be made available for in-person inspection by earlier arrangement.
Three days later, the union official responsible for bargaining with the hospital stated that he would
be on vacation from June 15–29 and requested reasonable dates for reviewing the performance
documents upon his return, bargaining dates after analysis of that documentation and a
postponement of the decision to subcontract until after bargaining.
       On June 14, Metrohealth signed a contract with a subcontractor to begin work on June 25.
On June 17, Metrohealth replied to the union and refused to delay subcontracting because the
ECD’s performance had “escalated into an emergency warranting an immediate and drastic
change.” J.A. 459. Metrohealth also repeated its willingness to bargain on the effects of the
subcontracting. On June 22, the union asked for confirmation on whether the decision to
subcontract had been made, renewed its objection to subcontracting, requested dates to review
performance deficiency documentation and asked for bargaining dates after that review. That day,
Metrohealth replied to confirm that the subcontracting decision had already been made. On June
24, Metrohealth laid off the eleven ECD employees and the next day the subcontractor began
performing the ECD’s work. Metrohealth’s functions otherwise remained the same.
       The union filed charges with the National Labor Relations Board (Board) alleging that
Metrohealth unlawfully subcontracted the ECD’s work, and the Board issued a complaint on that
basis. An Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) found that Metrohealth violated the National Labor
Relations Act (the Act) by subcontracting the work and laying off ECD employees without giving
the union an adequate opportunity to bargain over that decision and its effects. The ALJ
discredited Talavera’s testimony about the reasons for subcontracting. The Board agreed with the
ALJ, finding that Metrohealth violated the Act by failing to bargain over its decision to
subcontract. Metrohealth, Inc., 372 N.L.R.B. No. 149, at *1 (Sept. 30, 2023).
                                                 II
        The Board had jurisdiction under section 10(a) of the Act, 29 U.S.C. § 160(a), and we have
jurisdiction under sections 10(e) and (f), id. §§ 160(e), (f).
       We “review Board decisions with a ‘very high degree of deference.’” Hosp. de la
Concepción v. NLRB, 106 F.4th 69, 76 (D.C. Cir. 2024) (quoting Ozburn-Hessey Logistics, LLC
v. NLRB, 833 F.3d 210, 217 (D.C. Cir. 2016)). The Board’s findings of fact are conclusive if they
are supported by substantial evidence on the record as a whole. 29 U.S.C. § 160(e). Substantial
                                                  2
evidence means “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support
a conclusion.” Universal Camera Corp. v. NLRB, 340 U.S. 474, 477 (1951) (quoting Consol.
Edison Co. of N.Y.. v. NLRB, 305 U.S. 197, 229 (1938)). We accept the Board’s adoption of an
ALJ’s credibility determinations unless they are “hopelessly incredible, self-contradictory, or
patently unsupportable.” Wayneview Care Ctr. v. NLRB, 664 F.3d 341, 349 (D.C. Cir. 2011)
(quoting United Food & Com. Workers Union Loc. 204 v. NLRB, 447 F.3d 821, 824 (D.C. Cir.
2006)). The Board’s construction of the Act “is afforded ‘considerable deference’ and upheld so
long as it is ‘reasonably defensible.’” Bob’s Tire Co. v. NLRB, 980 F.3d 147, 153 (D.C. Cir. 2020)
(quoting Regal Cinemas, Inc. v. NLRB, 317 F.3d 300, 307 (D.C. Cir. 2003)). We review the
Board’s interpretation of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA) de novo but defer to those
findings of fact necessary to interpret the contract, including evidence of party intent drawn from
the parties’ bargaining history. Pac. Mar. Ass’n v. NLRB, 967 F.3d 878, 884–85 (D.C. Cir. 2020).
        An employer commits an unfair labor practice in violation of section 8(a)(5) of the Act by
“refus[ing] to bargain collectively with the representatives of his employees.” 29 U.S.C.
§ 158(a)(5). The duty to bargain requires an employer to “confer in good faith with respect to
wages, hours, and other terms and conditions.” Id. § 158(d). “An employer thus violates section
8(a)(5) by unilaterally changing an existing term or condition of employment without first
bargaining to impasse.” Regal Cinemas, 317 F.3d at 309 (citing Litton Fin. Printing Div. v. NLRB,
501 U.S. 190, 198 (1991)). “An employer who violates section 8(a)(5) also derivatively violates
section 8(a)(1), which makes it unlawful for an employer ‘to interfere with, restrain, or coerce
employees in the exercise of’ their statutory labor rights.” Id. at 309 n.5 (quoting 29 U.S.C.
§ 158(a)(1)). Hiring independent contractors to perform work previously done by union
employees under similar conditions of employment falls within the terms and conditions of
employment subject to mandatory bargaining. Fibreboard Paper Prods. Corp. v. NLRB, 379 U.S.
203, 213, 215 (1964). Certain decisions—involving a change in the “scope and direction of the
enterprise” akin to deciding “whether to be in business at all”—have a “direct impact on
employment” but “focus only [on] the economic profitability of the [business]” and require
mandatory bargaining “only if the benefit, for labor-management relations and the collective-
bargaining process, outweighs the burden placed on the conduct of the business.” First Nat’l
Maint. Corp. v. NLRB, 452 U.S. 666, 677, 679 (1981). Under this balancing test, the decision to
close part of a business for purely economic reasons is not subject to mandatory bargaining. Id. at
686.
                                                A
        “[T]he type of ‘contracting out’ involved in this case—the replacement of employees in
the existing bargaining unit with those of an independent contractor to do the same work under
similar conditions of employment—is a statutory subject of collective bargaining.” Fibreboard,
379 U.S. at 215; see also Regal Cinemas, 317 F.3d at 312 (transfer of work from projectionists to
managers under similar conditions of employment was mandatory subject of bargaining).
        Nevertheless, Metrohealth argues that it subcontracted the ECD’s work to protect its
accreditation, falling within the “core entrepreneurial concerns” exception to mandatory
bargaining laid out in Oklahoma Fixture Co., 314 N.L.R.B. 958, 960 (1994), enf’t denied, 79 F.3d
1030 (10th Cir. 1996), following First National. In Oklahoma Fixture, a manufacturer of
department store display cases brought electrical work in-house for fifteen months before deciding
to revert to a subcontracting model. Id. at 958–59. The Board highlighted that the ALJ credited
                                                 3
employer testimony that the company decided to subcontract the electrical work because it was
concerned about legal liability and the risk of losing its largest customer—accounting for 95 per
cent of sales—in the event of faulty wiring. Id. As a result, the Board determined that labor costs
were not a factor in the decision, which instead “involved considerations of corporate strategy
fundamental to preservation of the enterprise.” Id. at 960.
        In contrast to Oklahoma Fixture, here the ALJ discredited Talavera’s claim that
Metrohealth decided to subcontract because the ECD’s deficient performance threatened loss of
accreditation. The ALJ highlighted that Talavera put nothing in writing and failed to act for years
despite the allegedly serious risk to the hospital. Moreover, Metrohealth’s failure to produce
relevant reports made it impossible to determine if the 2018 inspection deficiencies had been
corrected before 2021, the internal reports identifying deficiencies coincidentally dated from the
period when Talavera began looking for subcontractors and the ECD employees continued to
receive excellent performance reviews. The ALJ’s credibility determination was thus not
“hopelessly incredible, self-contradictory, or patently unsupportable.” Wayneview Care Ctr., 664
F.3d at 349.
       Likewise, the Board found that nothing in the record suggested that alleged deficiencies
“were sufficiently severe or pervasive to place [Metrohealth’s] accreditation at risk if not
immediately corrected.” J.A. 1184 n.7; see also id. at 1184 n.8 (finding that even if deficiencies
reached the point of exigency in March 2021, Metrohealth could have notified the union at that
time and bargained for another six or seven weeks). The Board’s factual findings are supported
by substantial evidence.
                                                  B
        Metrohealth contends that several sections across a number of articles in the CBA covered
the decision to subcontract, removing that decision from the scope of mandatory bargaining. That
is incorrect.
        “The union may exercise its right to bargain about a particular subject by negotiating for a
provision in a collective bargaining contract that fixes the parties’ rights and forecloses further
mandatory bargaining as to that subject.” NLRB v. U.S. Postal Serv., 8 F.3d 832, 836 (D.C. Cir.
1993) (quoting Loc. Union No. 47, IBEW v. NLRB, 927 F.2d 635, 640 (D.C. Cir. 1991)). “Thus,
pursuant to the contract coverage doctrine, an employer is ‘free to make unilateral changes . . .
without running afoul of the Act’ when those changes are ‘covered by the collective bargaining
agreement.’” Wilkes-Barre Hosp. Co. v. NLRB, 857 F.3d 364, 376 (D.C. Cir. 2017) (quoting
Enter. Leasing Co. of Fla. v. NLRB, 831 F.3d 534, 547 (D.C. Cir. 2016)). “To conclude that a
CBA covers the challenged unilateral conduct, the conduct must fall ‘within the compass or scope
of contract language granting the employer the right to act unilaterally.’” Pac. Mar., 967 F.3d at
891 (quoting MV Transp., Inc., 368 N.L.R.B. No. 66, at *17 (Sept. 10, 2019)). Although the CBA
need not “specifically mention” the action at issue, an employer may not unilaterally act simply
because the relevant terms and conditions of employment “fall within a broad subject area that the
parties’ Agreement had addressed in other respects.” Id. (citing Wilkes-Barre Hosp., 857 F.3d at
377). “To avail itself of the defense, [the employer] must show that some provision in the CBA[]
affirmatively permits it to unilaterally [take the challenged action]; the mere absence of a provision
expressly prohibiting such action is insufficient.” Hosp. de la Concepción, 106 F.4th at 79.
       Most relevantly, section 11.2 permits Metrohealth to “contract for assignment” and to
                                                  4
“contract per diem personnel, or independent contractor[s].” J.A. 208. The clause giving
Metrohealth authority to “contract for assignment” goes on to state that Metrohealth may “transfer,
promote, train, suspend, discharge and discipline employees for a just cause.” Id. In context, to
contract for assignment simply means to hire. See Cintas Corp. v. NLRB, 482 F.3d 463, 471 (D.C.
Cir. 2007) (Henderson, J., concurring) (“Under the doctrine of noscitur a sociis, [a term] must be
read in light of its associated references.”). Similarly, and as the Board found, the right to hire
independent contractors—read next to the right to hire per diem personnel—means the right “to
augment [the] workforce with contractors,” not “to lay off the ECD employees and subcontract
their work.” J.A. 1186.
        Metrohealth’s references to sections of the CBA pertaining to layoffs and downsizing are
similarly unavailing. Section 10.2—governing layoffs—provides that Metrohealth “shall
determine the time of discharges, the number of employees to be discharged, and the departments
and classifications to be affected” and also provides the order in which “layoffs shall take place”
if “downsizing” is required for reasons authorized under Puerto Rican law. J.A. 204–05. However,
there was no downsizing here. Instead, Metrohealth “merely transferred to [subcontractors] work
that was previously done by” union employees. Regal Cinemas, 317 F.3d at 313. Moreover, the
context of section 10.2—part of Article X, which addresses “seniority”—indicates that it is
intended to address how seniority factors into layoffs and other personnel decisions, not to
authorize subcontracting department work. J.A. 204–07. Section 18.1 prohibits laying off
employees covered by the CBA “except for a justified cause” under Puerto Rican law. J.A. 228.
As the Board observed, “there is no basis for interpreting this limitation on [Metrohealth]’s ability
to lay off employees as an affirmative grant of authority to subcontract.” J.A. 1186. Moreover,
none of the just cause reasons Metrohealth relies on applies here. This was not a “partial closing
of the operations of the establishment,” a [t]echnological or reorganization change[],” a “change[]
in the services rendered to the public,” or “[d]ownsizing made necessary by a reduction in . . .
production, sales, or profits.” P.R. LAWS ANN. tit. 29, § 185b. Although section 33.9 authorizes
Metrohealth to “eliminate [its] operations or part of them,” J.A. 260, Metrohealth did not eliminate
any operations, it simply transferred the work from union employees to independent contractors.
        General management provisions do not authorize Metrohealth’s action either. Section 11.1
provides that Metrohealth “retains, solely and exclusively all its rights . . . to administer the
business, as these rights existed before signing th[e] Agreement.” J.A. 208. However, once
employees voted to unionize, Metrohealth had a duty to bargain before changing terms and
conditions of employment. See Fugazy Cont’l Corp. v. NLRB, 725 F.2d 1416, 1421 (D.C. Cir.
1984) (enforcing a pre-certification duty to bargain before making unilateral changes to the terms
and conditions of union employment). Section 11.2 authorizes Metrohealth to take “any other
required measure determined by [Metrohealth] for its orderly, efficient and profitable operation.”
J.A. 209. And section 34.5 provides that “[n]one of the provisions of th[e] Agreement can be
construed to . . . deny[] [Metrohealth] the right to do everything that is not forbidden by the
contract” and that Metrohealth “policies and practices, including the external work contract . . .
not [] expressly prohibited or limited in th[e] Agreement” will not be the subject of a grievance
process. J.A. 266. As the Board observed, Metrohealth’s overbroad interpretation of these clauses
“would equally permit the subcontracting of the work of the entire unit.” J.A. 1186 n.12. “Absent
[] affirmative evidence, we are loath to conclude that a union would knowingly agree to a clause
that would effectively permit the employer to unilaterally extinguish the bargaining unit
altogether.” Regal Cinemas, 317 F.3d at 313.
                                                 5
        Finally, we also defer to the Board on findings of fact necessary to interpret the contract,
including evidence of party intent from the parties’ bargaining history. Pac. Mar., 967 F.3d at
884–85. Here, the Board found that there was no evidence from the parties’ negotiations to support
Metrohealth’s interpretation and highlighted that Metrohealth asserted to the union that the
subcontracting decision had nothing to do with labor costs, suggesting that it viewed the decision
as excluded from mandatory bargaining under First National rather than the contract coverage
doctrine. These factual findings are supported by substantial evidence because Metrohealth does
not offer evidence to the contrary and the Board’s construction of the Act is reasonably defensible.
                                                  C
         Metrohealth argues that the union failed to act and tried to unreasonably delay the
subcontracting implementation, ignoring Metrohealth’s proposals to bargain. A union must act
with due diligence in requesting bargaining to avoid waiving its claims under the Act, but it does
not need to go through the motions of requesting bargaining if it is clear the employer has made
its decision and will not negotiate. Regal Cinemas, 317 F.3d at 314. “Notice of a fait accompli is
simply not the sort of timely notice upon which the waiver defense is predicated.” Id. (cleaned
up) (quoting Int’l Ladies’ Garment Workers Union, AFL-CIO v. NLRB, 463 F.2d 907, 919 (D.C.
Cir. 1972)). Here, Metrohealth’s May 28 letter informed the union of Metrohealth’s “intention to
subcontract” and offered to bargain only over the effects, not the decision. J.A. 276–77. Therefore,
the union was not obligated to go through the motions of requesting bargaining. See Regal
Cinemas, 317 F.3d at 314 (affirming Board finding of no waiver where employer “simply
informed” union of its decision). In any event, the union did request bargaining. The next business
day, it asked for documents supporting the reason given for subcontracting and for a postponement
of the decision until the parties could negotiate. Metrohealth took a week to reply, and just a week
later inked a contract with the subcontractor. Therefore, the Board’s adoption of the ALJ’s
rejection of the union-delay defense is supported by substantial evidence.
                                                ***
       For the foregoing reasons, we deny Metrohealth’s petition for review and grant the Board’s
cross-application for enforcement.

       This disposition is unpublished. See D.C. Cir. R. 36(d). We direct the Clerk to withhold
this mandate until seven days after the resolution of a timely petition for panel or en banc rehearing.
See Fed. R. App. P. 41(b); D.C. Cir. R. 41(a)(1).

                                            Per Curiam

                                                               FOR THE COURT:
                                                               Mark J. Langer, Clerk

                                                       BY:     /s/
                                                               Daniel J. Reidy
                                                               Deputy Clerk




                                                  6
