                  United States Court of Appeals
                           FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT




No. 24-5293                                                  September Term, 2025
                                                             FILED ON: DECEMBER 15, 2025

LAUREATUS GROUP, LLC, A NEVADA LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY,
                  APPELLANT

v.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY, ET AL.,
                   APPELLEES


                          Appeal from the United States District Court
                                  for the District of Columbia
                                      (No. 1:22-cv-02103)


       Before: SRINIVASAN, Chief Judge, and HENDERSON and GARCIA, Circuit Judges

                                       JUDGMENT

        This appeal was considered on the record from the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia and on the briefs of the parties. See Fed. R. App. P. 34(a)(2); D.C. Cir. R.
34(j). The court has afforded the issues full consideration and has determined that they do not
warrant a published opinion. See D.C. Cir. R. 36(d). For the reasons stated below, it is:

       ORDERED and ADJUDGED that the order of the district court issued on December 2,
2024, granting appellees’ motion to dismiss pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(1)
and denying leave to file a second amended complaint be AFFIRMED.

                                         *      *      *

        This appeal involves a claim against the United States for $700 billion. The plaintiff,
Laureatus Group, LLC (Laureatus), alleged that the federal government froze a $700 billion
transfer and then unlawfully confiscated the funds. The district court dismissed Laureatus’s first
amended complaint and denied it leave to file a second amended complaint because Laureatus had
acquired its claim from another corporation in violation of the Anti-Assignment Act. Because
Laureatus’s claims are wholly fictitious, we affirm.
                                                  I.

        We take the following allegations from Laureatus’s second amended complaint and the
attached exhibits. In July 2004, Merchants International Holding Ltd. (Merchants), an entity
incorporated with the Oglala Sioux Tribe, successfully solicited a $2.1 trillion investment. The
benefactor was one “Mr. Wu,” a wealthy Taiwanese citizen. App. 205. To effect the investment,
Wu attempted to wire $700 billion from the Bank of Taiwan to a bank in the United States. The
federal government, however, froze the transfer. Then, “[f]or some unknown reason, the[] Funds
simply disappeared.” App. 211.

       From that moment on, Merchants began a years-long search to recover the funds. The
search implicated high-ranking officials from five presidential administrations, members of the
Congress and a diverse collection of other characters, including Jerry Falwell, Liberty University’s
former president.

        To aid the search, Merchants incorporated an entity in Nevada—Laureatus Group, LLC—
on the advice of George H.W. Bush. Bush believed that Merchants’ ties to the Oglala Sioux might
impede it from recovering the funds. For that reason, Merchants transferred its claims and assets
to Laureatus and unwound its operations, ceasing to exist. Although the entities did not formally
merge, they shared the same principal owners and managers so that, in effect, Merchants “simply
changed the business entity” by which it operated. App. 247.

         Picking up where Merchants left off, Laureatus regularly spoke with government officials
to try to settle the claim. These discussions took place, Laureatus said, from the time that the funds
disappeared in 2004 until 2022. In 2007, for example, a retired intelligence agent reported that an
undersecretary for the U.S. Department of the Treasury (Treasury) was willing to settle the claim
on Treasury’s behalf. The parties drew up a settlement agreement, which sat waiting at Treasury,
but an ice storm kept Treasury from signing the agreement and delivering it to Laureatus. Before
the parties could finalize the agreement, the undersecretary resigned.

        This was not the only time that a late-breaking development prevented the parties from
settling. While on the telephone with the White House to settle the claim, Falwell died from
cardiac arrhythmia. Then, in 2008, associates of Tony Podesta and John Ashcroft abandoned a
settlement meeting at the last minute, claiming that they needed to prepare for President Obama’s
inauguration. And in 2010, Treasury officials told Laureatus that Treasury had created a bank
account to transfer the funds but the credentials those officials gave Laureatus did not work.

        The same pattern—negotiation, progress and failure to settle—held until 2022. Then,
Laureatus determined that President Biden did not intend to settle the claim and that its only
recourse was to sue. On July 18, 2022, Laureatus sued in federal district court. It sued Treasury,
the Secretary of Treasury, the Attorney General, the United States, the clearing companies that had
assisted the transfer and twenty-five John Does responsible for confiscating the funds. It claimed
that the defendants had violated its Fifth Amendment rights to due process and equal protection
and its Fourth Amendment right to be free from unreasonable seizures. It also claimed that

                                                  2
Treasury’s refusal to return the funds constituted agency action unlawfully withheld or
unreasonably delayed and was arbitrary and capricious under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5
U.S.C. § 706. It sued the United States for conversion under the Federal Tort Claims Act, 28
U.S.C. § 1346. And it sued the John Doe defendants for violating the Fourth Amendment under
Bivens v. Six Unknown Named Agents of Federal Bureau of Narcotics, 403 U.S. 388 (1971).

        The defendants moved to dismiss under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(1) for lack
of standing and under Rule 12(b)(6) because the statute of limitations had run about twelve years
earlier. The court granted the defendants’ motion, dismissing the complaint on statute-of-
limitations grounds. It did, however, grant Laureatus leave to amend its complaint, which
Laureatus obliged.

         After the defendants moved to dismiss the first amended complaint, Laureatus requested
leave to file a second amended complaint. In the second amended complaint, Laureatus maintained
that it possessed standing and that the statute of limitations should be tolled. The district court
again granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss, this time on the ground that Laureatus lacked
standing. And it denied Laureatus’s motion to file a second amended complaint for futility. It
determined that Laureatus’s new factual allegations failed to remedy the deficiencies in its first
amended complaint, concluding that Laureatus’s second amended complaint could not survive a
motion to dismiss.

       Laureatus timely appealed.

                                                 II.

        “[W]here, as here, a district court denies leave to amend because the amended complaint
would not survive a motion to dismiss, our review is de novo.” L. Xia v. Tillerson, 865 F.3d 643,
649 (D.C. Cir. 2017) (citation omitted). In other words, our review “is, for practical purposes,
identical to review of a Rule 12(b)(6) dismissal based on the allegations in the amended
complaint.” In re Interbank Funding Corp. Sec. Litig., 629 F.3d 213, 215–16 (D.C. Cir. 2010)
(quotation omitted).

        Under Rule 12(b)(6), “a complaint must contain sufficient factual matter, accepted as true,
to state a claim to relief that is plausible on its face.” Ashcroft v. Iqbal, 556 U.S. 662, 678 (2009)
(citation modified). Although “Rule 12(b)(6) does not countenance dismissals based on a judge’s
disbelief of a complaint’s factual allegations,” Jones v. Kirchner, 835 F.3d 74, 80 (D.C. Cir. 2016)
(citation modified), a court may dismiss a claim that is “patently insubstantial,” Neitzke v.
Williams, 490 U.S. 319, 327 n.6 (1989), or “essentially fictitious,” Hagans v. Lavine, 415 U.S.
528, 537 (1974) (quotation omitted), for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction under Rule 12(b)(1).
Examples of essentially fictitious claims include those resting on “bizarre conspiracy theories,”
“fantastic government manipulations of the[] will or mind” or “supernatural intervention.” Best v.
Kelly, 39 F.3d 328, 330 (D.C. Cir. 1994). The common thread among these claims is that they
“rest[] on truly fanciful factual allegations.” Ord v. District of Columbia, 587 F.3d 1136, 1144
(D.C. Cir. 2009) (citation modified).

                                                  3
        Laureatus’s claims are wholly fictitious. In short, Laureatus alleges that government
officials confiscated a third of the $2.1 trillion investment that it solicited from Wu but then spent
eighteen years toiling to ensure that Laureatus received the funds that it had confiscated. Laureatus
does not explain why high-ranking officials in five presidential administrations devoted their time
and effort to returning the funds. Nor does it explain why Wu chose Merchants, an entity with no
other assets, to receive and invest his $2.1 trillion gift. Similarly unexplained is why Treasury
needed Russia’s permission to settle the claim. Laureatus’s allegations—encompassing a years-
long government conspiracy of bizarre origin and motive—are in line with many cases that courts
have dismissed for lack of jurisdiction. Tooley v. Napolitano, 586 F.3d 1006, 1009–10 (D.C. Cir.
2009) (collecting cases). Because Laureatus’s claims are fictitious, we lack jurisdiction to resolve
them. Best, 39 F.3d at 331. The district court’s decision is affirmed.

        Finally, we leave to the district court whether to sanction Laureatus’s counsel for the
plainly groundless complaints they filed. Geller v. Randi, 40 F.3d 1300, 1304 (D.C. Cir. 1994)
(“Rule 11 expressly authorizes sanctions for groundless complaints . . . .”). The district court
expended significant time and attention on Laureatus’s initial and amended complaints, issuing
two thorough decisions that totaled nearly fifty pages and that required it to analyze more than 200
pages of allegations and exhibits. An appropriate sanction may deter counsel from causing a waste
of judicial resources in the future. See In re Kunstler, 914 F.2d 505, 522 (4th Cir. 1990).

                                           *      *      *

        This disposition is unpublished. We direct the Clerk to withhold issuance of the mandate
until seven days after the resolution of any timely petition for rehearing or rehearing en banc. See
Fed. R. App. P. 41(b); D.C. Cir. R. 41.

                                            Per Curiam


                                                             FOR THE COURT:
                                                             Clifton B. Cislak, Clerk

                                                      BY: /s/
                                                          Daniel J. Reidy
                                                          Deputy Clerk




                                                  4
