                    FOR PUBLICATION

     UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
          FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

MANLEY BARTON,                                  No. 23-15902

                Plaintiff-Appellant,          D.C. No. 3:22-cv-
                                                 08022-SPL
    v.

OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI                         OPINION
INDIAN RELOCATION, an
administrative agency of the United
States,

                Defendant-Appellee.

         Appeal from the United States District Court
                  for the District of Arizona
         Steven Paul Logan, District Judge, Presiding
            Argued and Submitted May 14, 2024
                     Phoenix, Arizona
                     Filed January 8, 2025

Before: Roopali H. Desai and Ana de Alba, Circuit Judges,
         and Edward M. Chen, * District Judge.

                    Opinion by Judge Desai

*
 The Honorable Edward M. Chen, United States District Judge for the
Northern District of California, sitting by designation.
2    BARTON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION


                          SUMMARY **


                  Tribal Relocation Benefits

    The panel reversed the district court’s summary
judgment in favor of the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian
Relocation, which affirmed a decision of the Independent
Hearing Officer (“IHO”) denying Manley Barton’s
application for relocation benefits under the Navajo-Hopi
Settlement Act.
    Manley applied for relocation benefits based on his
residence at his grandparents’ Hopi Partitioned Lands
(“HPL”) homesite. To be eligible for benefits, an applicant
must show that he (1) was a resident of the land partitioned
to the tribe of which he was not a member on December 22,
1974; and (2) was head of household as of the date he moved
away from the land partitioned to the tribe of which he was
not a member.
    The panel held that because Manley was away from the
HPL homesite after 1984 for his education and then his
employment, he qualified for the “temporarily away”
exception. Therefore, to determine Manley’s legal
residence, the IHO needed to examine Manley’s intent to
reside on the HPL homesite and manifestations of his intent
in accordance with the proper standard. But instead, the IHO
found one fact dispositive of Manley’s residence: his
grandparents’ relocation from the HPL homesite. This
reasoning failed to comport with the residency
standard. The panel concluded that the IHO’s decision was

**
  This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
   BARTON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION   3


arbitrary and capricious, and reversed and remanded for
further proceedings.



                       COUNSEL

Lee Phillips (argued), Law Office of Lee Phillips PC,
Flagstaff, Arizona, for Plaintiff-Appellant.
Ezekiel Peterson (argued), John E. Arbab, and William B.
Lazarus, Attorneys; Todd Kim, Assistant Attorney General;
United States Department of Justice Environment & Natural
Resources Division, Appellate Section, Washington, D.C.;
Katherine R. Branch and William C. Staes, Assistant United
States Attorneys; United States Department of Justice,
Office of the United States Attorney, Phoenix, Arizona;
Larry Ruzow, Attorney, Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian
Relocation, Flagstaff, Arizona; for Defendant-Appellee.
4   BARTON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION


                         OPINION

DESAI, Circuit Judge:

    Manley Barton, a registered member of the Navajo tribe,
applied for benefits from the Office of Navajo and Hopi
Indian Relocation (“ONHIR”). His application was based on
his relocation within the Joint Use Area (“JUA”), a portion
of reservation land in northeastern Arizona, following its
partition between the Navajo and Hopi tribes. ONHIR
denied Manley’s initial application, and on appeal, the
Independent Hearing Officer (“IHO”) concluded that
Manley was ineligible for benefits. On appeal, Manley
argues that (1) substantial evidence does not support the
IHO’s findings, (2) the IHO’s decision is arbitrary and
capricious because it misapplied two ONHIR policies, and
(3) the IHO’s denial violated its federal trust responsibility.
We reverse and remand because the IHO improperly applied
the OHNIR policy regarding the “temporarily away”
exception and thus the IHO’s decision is arbitrary and
capricious.
                     BACKGROUND
I. The Settlement Act
    After years of conflict between the Navajo and Hopi
tribes about ownership of the JUA, Congress enacted the
Navajo-Hopi Settlement Act (“Settlement Act”) to partition
the land between the two tribes. Bedoni v. Navajo-Hopi
Indian Relocation Comm’n, 878 F.2d 1119, 1121 (9th Cir.
1989). The JUA was split into the Hopi Partitioned Lands
(“HPL”) and Navajo Partitioned Lands (“NPL”), and we
approved the partition in Sekaquaptewa v. MacDonald, 626
F.2d 113 (9th Cir. 1980).
    BARTON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION    5


    Pursuant to the Settlement Act, individuals residing on
land partitioned to the tribe of which they were not a member
were required to relocate from their homes. See 25 U.S.C.
§ 640d-13(a). Congress also created ONHIR, a federal
agency, to administer the Act, and funds were allocated to
provide eligible tribe members with relocation benefits. See
25 C.F.R. § 700.1 (1988). To be eligible for benefits, an
applicant had to show that he (1) was a resident of the land
partitioned to the tribe of which he was not a member on
December 22, 1974, and (2) was head of household as of the
date he moved away from the land partitioned to the tribe of
which he was not a member. 25 C.F.R. §§ 700.147(a)–(b),
700.69(c).
II. Manley’s Residential History
    In 1966, Manley was born on his grandparents’ homesite
in Beshbito and lived there with his family. When his parents
found jobs in Holbrook, Arizona, Manley moved with them.
He attended school in Holbrook from elementary school to
the time of his high school graduation in 1985.
    When the JUA was partitioned in 1974, Manley’s
grandparents’ homesite in Beshbito became part of the HPL.
They also had a second homesite that became part of the
NPL. Even though he lived in Holbrook, Manley returned to
the HPL homesite during summers, weekends, and holidays
with his mother and sister throughout the early 1980s. In
1984, his grandparents were certified for relocation benefits,
and they relocated from the HPL homesite to their NPL
homesite. After Manley’s grandparents moved, several of
Manley’s family members testified that they used the HPL
homesite for religious ceremonies a couple times a year.
They also testified that the family’s livestock remained at the
HPL homesite for several years. Manley’s aunt, Ruth Begay,
6   BARTON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION


testified that she did not “recall anyone living [at the HPL
homesite] like 24/7.” Manley testified that he was at the HPL
homesite “all the time” and spent his time doing various
household chores. He further testified that he lived at the
HPL homesite until 1986. Around 1984, Manley’s father
became sick with cancer and received medical treatment in
Albuquerque, Shiprock, and Flagstaff. Manley visited his
father at the hospital while he was receiving treatment, and
his father passed away in 1986.
    After graduating high school, Manley worked as a
construction worker and gas station attendant. Most of his
construction work was throughout northern Arizona, and the
gas station was in Holbrook. He earned $4,105 from the two
jobs in 1985. Manley’s mother, Marie Barton, was certified
for relocation benefits based on her residence at the HPL
homesite and moved to the NPL in 1986. There is unrebutted
testimony that Manley’s aunts Ruth Ann Begay and Mildred
Begay and possibly other members of the family were also
similarly certified for benefits.
III. Manley’s Application for Benefits and Subsequent
     Appeals
    Manley applied for relocation benefits based on his
residence at his grandparents’ HPL homesite. ONHIR
denied his application for failure to satisfy the head of
household requirement, and he appealed the decision. In
support of his appeal, Manley testified and also presented his
uncle Richard Begay, aunt Mildred Begay, aunt Ruth Ann
Begay, and sister Marcella Barton as witnesses. And
following his hearing before the IHO, Manley submitted a
memorandum arguing that his continued contacts with the
HPL homesite through 1986 established that he was the head
of household at the time he moved away from the HPL. The
    BARTON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION   7


IHO denied Manley’s appeal. He found that all the witnesses
were credible but noted that Ruth’s credibility was limited
due to her inability to recall certain dates. The IHO
concluded that Manley was a legal resident of the HPL on
December 22, 1974, but his residence at the HPL homesite
ended in 1984. The IHO explained that Manley’s “claim to
legal residence” at the HPL homesite “ended in 1984 when
[his] grandparents relocated to the NPL . . .” Regardless of
the family’s use of the structures at their former HPL
homesite after relocation, the HPL homesite was no longer
any family members’ homesite or legal residence for
relocation purposes.” Without considering any other
evidence, the IHO relied on this finding to conclude that
Manley could not be considered “temporarily away” from
the HPL homesite. And because Manley was a dependent
minor in 1984, the IHO ultimately found that he could not
satisfy the head of household requirement.
    Manley filed an appeal in the district court, and each
party moved for summary judgment. The district court
granted summary judgment in favor of ONHIR, finding that
the IHO’s conclusion that Manley’s legal residence on the
HPL ended in 1984 was supported by substantial evidence
and was not arbitrary or capricious. It also rejected Manley’s
claim that ONHIR violated its federal trust responsibility by
denying his application for benefits. Manley timely
appealed. We have jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1291. We
reverse and remand.
               STANDARD OF REVIEW
    A district court’s grant of summary judgment is reviewed
de novo. Brunozzi v. Cable Commc’ns, Inc., 851 F.3d 990,
995 (9th Cir. 2017). When summary judgment involves
review of an administrative proceeding, we need only
8   BARTON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION


“determine whether or not as a matter of law the evidence in
the administrative record permitted the agency to make the
decision it did.” Occidental Eng’g Co. v. I.N.S., 753 F.2d
766, 769 (9th Cir. 1985). Under the Administrative
Procedure Act (“APA”), we review ONHIR’s decision to
determine whether it was “arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of
discretion, not in accordance with law, or unsupported by
substantial evidence.” Bedoni, 878 F.2d at 1122.
    Under the arbitrary and capricious standard, we “simply
ensure[] that the agency has acted within a zone of
reasonableness and, in particular, has reasonably considered
the relevant issues and reasonably explained [its] decision.”
Fed. Commc’ns Comm’n v. Prometheus Radio Project, 592
U.S. 414, 423 (2021). For instance, a decision is arbitrary
and capricious when it “relie[s] on factors which Congress
has not intended it to consider, entirely fail[s] to consider an
important aspect of the problem, offer[s] an explanation for
its decision that runs counter to the evidence before the
agency, or is so implausible that it could not be ascribed to a
difference in view or the product of agency expertise.”
Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Ass’n of U.S., Inc. v. State Farm Mut.
Auto Ins., 463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983).
                         ANALYSIS
    To satisfy the head of household requirement under the
Settlement Act, an applicant must show that he was head of
household as of the time he moved from the land partitioned
to the other tribe. 25 C.F.R. §§ 700.147(a)–(b), 700.69(c).
This element requires establishing when an applicant’s
residence at a homesite ended. Generally, determining an
applicant’s residence “requires an examination of the
person’s intent to reside combined with manifestations of
that intent.” 49 Fed. Reg. 22,277–78 (May 29, 1984)
      BARTON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION   9


(eliminating “substantial and recurring contacts” standard
and adopting “intent and manifestations of intent” standard
for assessing residency). According to the regulations,
several factors can be considered, including:

         Ownership of livestock, Ownership of
         improvements, Grazing Permits, Livestock
         sales receipts, Homesite leases, Public health
         records, Medical and Hospital records,
         including those of Medicinemen, Trading
         Post records, School records, Military
         records, Employment records, Mailing
         Address records, Banking records, Drivers
         license records, Voting records—tribal and
         county, Home ownership or rental off the
         disputed area, BIA Census Data, Information
         obtained by Certification Field Investigation,
         Social Security Administration records,
         Marital records, Court records, Records of
         Birth, Joint Use Area Roster, any other
         relevant data.

Id.
    Furthermore, an applicant can establish eligibility for
benefits under the “temporarily away” exception. Under this
exception, an applicant who is physically away from their
homesite for education or employment can still establish
residency for relocation benefits eligibility. Initially, the
regulations required an applicant who was “temporarily
away” from their homesite to show “substantial recurring
contacts” with their homesite to establish residency. See
Bedoni, 878 F.3d at 1122 (applying the version of 25 C.F.R.
§ 700.97 in effect in 1977). But since then, the regulations
10 BARTON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION


have been updated to adopt a general “intent and
manifestations of intent” standard instead. See 49 Fed.
Reg. 22,277–78 (May 29, 1984). It follows that, consistent
with the current regulation, this new standard should also be
used to assess the residency of applicants who are
“temporarily away” from their homesite. And at oral
argument, both parties conceded that the “intent and
manifestations of intent” standard applies to the
“temporarily away” exception. Therefore, an applicant who
is away from his homesite for education or employment
purposes can nevertheless establish residency through
evidence of his intent to reside at the homesite or
manifestations of that intent.
    Here, Manley was away from the HPL homesite until he
graduated from high school in 1985. Following his
graduation, he was away from the HPL homesite for
employment purposes. And before the IHO, Manley and his
family members provided credible testimony demonstrating
his intent to reside at the HPL homesite post-1984. Manley
testified that he used the HPL homesite until 1986, when he
moved to his mother’s relocation house on the NPL. He
testified that he was at the HPL homesite “all the time,” lived
in the hogans, used the hogans for ceremonies, and kept
clothes and belongings there. Manley also testified that he
did chores, hauled wood, and fed the animals at the HPL
homesite. Similarly, Manley’s family members testified that
they held religious ceremonies at the HPL homesite “several
times a year” until 1987. They also testified that the family
kept livestock, maintained the structures, stored firewood,
and kept furnishings and dishes at the HPL after 1984.
    However, the IHO found that “[b]y operation of law,”
the HPL homesite could not be Manley’s legal residence
after his grandparents’ 1984 relocation from the HPL
    BARTON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION 11


homesite, and concluded that “[r]egardless of the family’s
use” of the HPL homesite, it was “no longer any family
member[‘s] homesite or legal residence.” Manley argues that
the IHO’s failure to properly apply the “temporarily away”
exception to determine his residence after 1984 renders the
IHO’s decision arbitrary and capricious.
    Because Manley was away from the HPL homesite after
1984 for his education and then his employment, he qualifies
for the “temporarily away” exception. Therefore, to
determine Manley’s legal residence, the IHO needed to
examine Manley’s intent to reside on the HPL homesite and
manifestations of his intent in accordance with the proper
standard. But instead, the IHO found one fact dispositive of
Manley’s legal residence: his grandparents’ relocation from
the HPL homesite. This reasoning fails to comport with the
residency standard. Indeed, it is unclear how Manley’s
grandparents’ relocation demonstrates Manley’s intent to
reside at the HPL homesite or is otherwise a manifestation
of his intent. And there is no authority to suggest that this
fact automatically establishes that Manley is not a legal
resident. Affording dispositive weight to the grandparents’
relocation in denying Manley’s claim of residence is
inconsistent with the certifications of relocation benefits for
his mother and other relatives. Instead of relying on a single
fact, the residency standard allows the IHO to consider all
relevant data in the record. See 49 Fed. Reg. 22,277–78. And
here, the record contains credible testimony from Manley
and his family members related to Manley’s continued
connection to the HPL homesite.
    By casting aside the proper standard and relying solely
on Manley’s grandparents’ relocation to determine Manley’s
legal residency, the IHO “entirely failed to consider an
important aspect of the problem”: evidence of Manley’s
12 BARTON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION


intent to reside at the HPL homesite and manifestations of
his intent. Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Ass’n of U.S., Inc., 463 U.S.
at 43; see also Innova Sols., Inc. v. Baran, 983 F.3d 428,
434–35 (9th Cir. 2020) (finding that the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services’ “failure to consider evidence so
central to the inquiry is yet another (and independent) reason
why its decision was arbitrary and capricious”); Montana
Wilderness Ass’n v. McAllister, 666 F.3d 549, 558 (9th Cir.
2011) (finding that the National Park Service’s failure to
explain how its travel plan maintained “wilderness
character” under the correct standard rendered the plan
arbitrary and capricious). Thus, we cannot conclude that the
IHO “reasonably considered the relevant issues and
reasonably explained [his] decision” to find Manley
ineligible for benefits, and we find that the IHO’s decision
was arbitrary and capricious. Prometheus Radio Project, 592
U.S. at 423. We reverse and remand for further proceedings
consistent with this opinion. 1
    REVERSED AND REMANDED.




1
  Because we conclude that the IHO’s decision was arbitrary and
capricious based on its failure to properly consider whether the
“temporarily away” exception applies, we decline to reach whether the
decision was arbitrary and capricious based on its failure to apply the
“customary use policy” or whether the decision was supported by
substantial evidence. And because we make no ruling on the merits of
Manley’s application, we cannot determine whether the IHO violated its
federal trust responsibility by finding Manley was ineligible for benefits.
