      Appellate Case: 24-8024      Document: 201    Date Filed: 03/13/2026     Page: 1
                                                                                   FILED
                                                                       United States Court of Appeals
                                        PUBLISH                                Tenth Circuit

                          UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS                       March 13, 2026
                                                                             Christopher M. Wolpert
                                FOR THE TENTH CIRCUIT                            Clerk of Court
                            _________________________________

 CUSTODIA BANK, INC.,

         Plaintiff - Appellant,
                                                               No. 24-8024
 v.                                                  (D.C. No. 1:22-CV-00125-SWS)
                                                                (D. Wyo.)
 FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD OF
 GOVERNORS, et al.,

         Defendants - Appellees.

 ------------------------------

 AMERICANS FOR PROSPERITY
 FOUNDATION-WYOMING, et al.,

         Amici Curiae.
                            _________________________________

                                         ORDER
                            _________________________________

Before HARTZ, TYMKOVICH, BACHARACH, PHILLIPS, McHUGH, MORITZ,
EID, CARSON, ROSSMAN, and FEDERICO, Circuit Judges. ∗
                 _________________________________

        This matter is before the court on the Petition for Rehearing En Banc by Custodia

Bank, Inc.; the Response to Petition for Rehearing En Banc by Appellee Federal Reserve

Board; Defendant-Appellee Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City’s Response to Petition



        The Honorable Jerome A. Holmes and the Honorable Scott M. Matheson, Jr. are
        ∗

recused in this matter.
    Appellate Case: 24-8024      Document: 201       Date Filed: 03/13/2026      Page: 2



for Rehearing En Banc; and Appellant’s Motion for Leave to File a Reply Brief in

Support of Petition for Rehearing En Banc, which was accompanied by a proposed reply.

       As an initial matter, Appellant’s motion for leave to file a reply in support of the

petition is GRANTED. The Clerk’s Office shall file Appellant’s reply as of the date it

was submitted to the court. In addition, the pending motions for leave to file amicus

briefs are GRANTED. All amicus briefs submitted in connection with the court’s

consideration of whether to grant en banc rehearing will be filed as of the date they were

submitted.

       The petition, responses, and proposed reply were circulated to all non-recused

judges of the court who are in regular active service, and a poll was called. The poll did

not carry. Consequently, the petition is DENIED.

       Judges Hartz, Tymkovich and Eid voted to grant en banc rehearing. Judge

Tymkovich has filed a separate dissent from the denial of en banc rehearing, which is

joined by Judge Eid.


                                              Entered for the Court,


                                              PER CURIAM




                                              2
   Appellate Case: 24-8024     Document: 201      Date Filed: 03/13/2026    Page: 3



No. 24-8024, Custodia Bank, Inc. v. Federal Reserve Board of Governors, et al.

TYMKOVICH, Circuit Judge, dissenting from the denial of rehearing en banc.

      At issue is the critical question of whether Congress has given the Federal

Reserve Banks unfettered discretion to deny a state-chartered bank’s master account

application. The majority held that it has such power, but I disagree. Without a

master account, a bank cannot operate in the modern banking system. By endorsing

unreviewable discretion to deny accounts, we effectively hand the Reserve Banks a

veto over states’ chartering power. The constitutional ramifications of allowing

unappointed bank officials to wield such significant and unreviewable executive

authority are too weighty to brush aside. This case’s implications for the continuing

viability of our state-federal dual banking system carry exceptional importance.

These issues warrant scrutiny and merit our full court’s consideration.

      I respectfully dissent from the denial of rehearing en banc.

                                        I.

      Custodia Bank is a Wyoming-chartered Special Purpose Depository Institution

(SPDI). Its stated mission is “to provide banking services for digital asset companies

and to serve as a bridge between digital assets and the U.S. dollar payment system for

institutional customers.” Majority Op. 11. By virtue of its state charter, Custodia is

legally eligible for a master account with the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City.

A master account is a financial institution’s bank account with the Federal Reserve

and is required for access to Reserve Bank services. See Fourth Corner Credit Union

v. Fed. Rsrv. Bank of Kansas City, 861 F.3d 1052, 1053 (10th Cir. 2017) (opinion of
   Appellate Case: 24-8024     Document: 201     Date Filed: 03/13/2026     Page: 4



Moritz, J.). Among those services are the Reserve Banks’ wire and electronic

transfer systems, which allow depository institutions to move money. Thus, a master

account is “indispensable” for a bank’s operations, Fourth Corner Credit Union, 861

F.3d at 1064 (opinion of Bacharach, J.), and being denied one is akin to a death

sentence.

      Custodia applied for a master account with the Reserve Bank in October 2020.

In January 2021, the Bank confirmed Custodia was eligible and told it there were “no

showstoppers” with its application. While the application was pending, the Federal

Reserve Board of Governors published guidelines for the Reserve Banks to use in

evaluating master account requests. Guidelines for Evaluating Account and Services

Requests, 87 Fed. Reg. 51099 (Aug. 19, 2022). Under those guidelines, Custodia

was subject to the strictest level of review. Though the Reserve Bank typically

moves quickly on master account applications, it sat on Custodia’s for years. Then,

in January 2024, the Bank sent Custodia a letter denying its application.

      Custodia sued the Federal Reserve Board under the Administrative Procedure

Act, 5 U.S.C. § 706(2), and the Reserve Bank under the Mandamus Act, 28 U.S.C.

§ 1361. The district court determined, and the majority agrees, that the APA claim

failed for lack of final agency action, and the Reserve Bank has discretion over

master accounts and is therefore not subject to mandamus. I do not agree that

Reserve Banks have discretion over account applications and would have allowed the

mandamus claim to go forward.



                                          2
    Appellate Case: 24-8024         Document: 201   Date Filed: 03/13/2026   Page: 5



                                           II.

       The case comes down to a single question. Has Congress given Reserve Banks

discretion to deny eligible institutions’ applications for master accounts? The answer

lies in statutory interpretation.

       The Reserve Banks started issuing master accounts in 1998 to consolidate and

simplify accounting for depository institutions. One consequence of master

accounts’ relative youth in the Reserve System is that no statute mentions them by

name. But the Depository Institutions Deregulatory and Monetary Control Act of

1980 (MCA) requires the Board to create a fee schedule for Reserve Bank services

and specifies “[a]ll Federal Reserve bank services covered by the fee schedule shall

be available to nonmember depository institutions and such services shall be priced

at the same fee schedule applicable to member banks.” 12 U.S.C. § 248a(c)(2)

(emphases added). A plain reading of this language reveals two nondiscretionary

commands to the Reserve Banks—access to services and equal pricing for them. And

when “statutory language is plain, we must enforce it according to its terms.” King v.

Burwell, 576 U.S. 473, 483 (2015). The statute produces a simple syllogism: all

eligible nonmember institutions are entitled to services, access to services requires a

master account, so every eligible nonmember institution is entitled to a master

account.

       Custodia is undisputably eligible for a master account. Section 248a adopts

the definition of “depository institution” from 12 U.S.C. § 461(b)(1). And Custodia

falls under § 461(b)(1)(A)(i) as a bank eligible to become an insured bank under
                                             3
   Appellate Case: 24-8024      Document: 201      Date Filed: 03/13/2026     Page: 6



section 5 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. Custodia’s FDIA-eligibility is

secured by its status as a Wyoming-chartered bank “engaged in the business of

receiving deposits.” 12 U.S.C. § 1312(2)(A)–(B); see also Wyo. Stat. Ann. § 13-12-

103(b)(vii)(E) (2025) (confirming SPDIs may receive deposits under Wyoming law).

      To me, the case is clear. Custodia is an eligible nonmember depository

institution, it has applied for a master account, and the Reserve Bank lacks discretion

to deny it one. I would go no further.

                                         III.

      But the majority embraced a contextual interpretation advanced by the Reserve

Bank. The theory has a few key steps, which I briefly recount. It begins with a

reading of the Federal Reserve Act (FRA) as having always given the Banks

discretion over accepting deposits, see 12 U.S.C. § 342. From there, it says

discretion over deposits only makes sense if the Banks also have discretion over

deposit accounts. Next, it rejects the idea that the MCA constrained that discretion

as an “elephant in a mousehole.” Majority Op. 7. Finally, the majority does not

consider its interpretation’s constitutional implications because, in its view, Custodia

waived that argument. I disagree at each step.

      First, the discretion the majority identifies in § 342 is not the heart of that

statute. The statute does not use the word discretion and the only clause that can be

read to confer it says the Banks “may receive . . . deposits of current funds in lawful

money, [etc.].” 12 U.S.C. § 342. Instead of a grant of broad discretion, § 342 merely

establishes the background principle that gives the Reserve Banks authority to accept
                                            4
    Appellate Case: 24-8024      Document: 201    Date Filed: 03/13/2026     Page: 7



deposits—“words of authorization merely.” Farmers’ & Merchants’ Bank of Monroe

v. Fed. Rsrv. Bank of Richmond, 262 U.S. 649, 662 (1923). So I’m unconvinced that

the statute gives the Banks unconstrained discretion to accept or reject deposits

without reason or explanation.

       Second, whatever discretion § 342 grants over deposits does not necessarily

entail discretion over accounts. The majority notes that forcing the Reserve Banks to

issue accounts and then scrutinize every deposit for potential threats to financial

stability would be cumbersome. That may be so, but the statute only discusses

deposits, see 12 U.S.C. § 342, and courts interpret statutes’ language, not their

predicted policy impacts, Burrage v. United States, 571 U.S. 204, 218 (2014) (“The

role of this Court is to apply the statute as it is written—even if we think some other

approach might ‘accord with good policy.’” (quoting Comm'r v. Lundy, 516 U.S. 235,

252 (1996))). Section 342 is silent on efficiency, and I would not read beyond the

text to bring it into play.

       Third, if § 342 conferred the discretion the majority claims, the MCA is the

later-in-time statute and eliminated that discretion through § 248a. Congress

undoubtedly has the authority to modify the Reserve Banks’ discretion. It did so in

1916 by allowing the Banks to accept deposits in maturing bills. See Federal Reserve

Act Amendments, Pub. L. No. 64-270, 39 Stat. 752 (1916). While the 1916

amendments expanded discretion, § 248a constrained it.

       The majority’s attempt to limit § 248a’s command by reference to the Toomey

Amendment is also unconvincing. That provision, passed in 2022, requires the

                                           5
    Appellate Case: 24-8024     Document: 201      Date Filed: 03/13/2026     Page: 8



Reserve Board to establish a “public, online, and searchable database” tracking all

master account requests and listing whether the request “was approved, rejected,

pending, or withdrawn.” 12 U.S.C. § 248c(b)(1)(B)(ii). According to the majority,

the Amendment recognized the Banks could reject account applications and thereby

affirmed their discretion. But that ignores the very good nondiscretionary reason a

Reserve Bank can deny an application—the applicant is not statutorily eligible for an

account. And it neglects the transparency function the database plays by forcing the

Reserve Banks to identify applications they reject for any reason, permissible or not.

Ultimately, I read the Amendment as supporting that transparency objective through

the database requirement, nothing more. 1

      Fourth, the majority counsels against my reading of § 248a as “find[ing] an

elephant in a mousehole.” Majority Op. 31. I agree that § 248a(c)(2)’s placement in

a part of the MCA dealing with pricing schedules and primarily directed at the

Reserve Board is imperfect. But the placement does not make the statutory language



      1
         I reach this interpretation based solely on the statutory text. But to the extent
that a reader might be persuaded by legislative history, I note the Amendment’s
sponsor has endorsed a reading in line with transparency objectives and repudiates
any interpretation that confers (or “affirms”) discretion over master accounts. See
Br. for Former Senator Patrick J. Toomey as Amicus Curiae in Supp. of Neither Party
12 (“The focus was consistently, and exclusively, on promoting transparency as to
which institutions held and had applied for master accounts.”); Br. for Senator
Cynthia M. Lummis & Former Senator Patrick J. Toomey as Amici Curiae in Supp.
of the Pet. for Reh’g En Banc 9 (“The effort to pass the Amendment was bipartisan,
and it was ultimately supported by a broad range of both Republicans and Democrats
across both the House and Senate, who recognized the importance of providing
transparency in line with other federal regulators.”).

                                            6
    Appellate Case: 24-8024     Document: 201      Date Filed: 03/13/2026     Page: 9



any less clear. Besides, the MCA is no mousehole. It upended the bargain between

the Federal Reserve and nonmember banks through a compromise: “[a]ll depository

institutions would be subject to federally established reserve requirements and in

return all depository institutions would get access to the Federal Reserve’s payment

services.” Julie Andersen Hill, From Cannabis to Crypto: Federal Reserve

Discretion in Payments, 109 Iowa L. Rev. 117, 168 (2023). Even the Federal

Reserve has recognized the MCA “changed the way the Fed provided services.”

Federal Reserve System: The First 100 Years, Fed. Rsrv. Bank of Phila. (Jan. 2021).

Mandating that eligible nonmember institutions, like Custodia, have access to the

Reserve Bank payment services conforms with the policy changes Congress made in

the MCA.

      Finally, the majority is as convinced as I am that the relevant statutes are

unambiguous—we just disagree on what they mean. Perhaps we should take that as a

cue that things are not quite so clear as they appear to each of us. If that is so, we

must interpret any ambiguity to avoid creating a constitutional problem. Clark v.

Martinez, 543 U.S. 371, 380–81 (2005). The majority’s interpretation does the

opposite. Giving the Reserve Banks unreviewable discretion to deny master accounts

makes it likely that Reserve Bank presidents wield “significant authority pursuant to

the laws of the United States” and are officers of the United States thereby. Edmond

v. United States, 520 U.S. 651, 662 (1997). But the processes for appointing and

removing Reserve Bank presidents—which involve boards of directors composed of

private citizens selected, in part, by private member banks, see 12 U.S.C. §§ 304–05,

                                            7
   Appellate Case: 24-8024     Document: 201      Date Filed: 03/13/2026     Page: 10



341—do not align with the Constitution’s procedures for Article II officers, see U.S.

Const. art. II, § 2, cl. 2. My interpretation avoids this conflict by limiting the Bank

presidents’ authority such that they are not “officers” in the constitutional sense.

      Rather than endorse this simple solution, the majority skirts avoidance by

holding Custodia waived the argument. I agree that Custodia waived any stand-alone

Appointments Clause challenge to the constitutionality of the Bank president’s

selection by failing to present it in the opening brief. But that does not prevent us

from considering the appointments issue for our statutory interpretation. Instead, as

Clark explained, we “must consider the necessary consequences” of our interpretative

choice and avoid a constitutional quagmire. 543 U.S. at 380–81 (emphasis added).

Applying the canon of constitutional avoidance only when a party raises it might

allow us to adopt constitutionally questionable interpretations when no party does.

That does not align with our duty to get the law right.

                                         IV.

      A final note on two issues raised by the Federal Reserve defendants but not

treated by the majority in depth.

      The Reserve Bank seeks to undercut my syllogism linking service access to

master accounts by claiming a master account is not technically necessary. In

support, it points to the possibility for Custodia to establish a correspondent

relationship with a third-party institution to transact through its master account.

      But I do not believe that possibility meets § 248a’s mandate. First, there is no

assurance that Custodia can convince another bank to agree to a correspondent
                                            8
   Appellate Case: 24-8024      Document: 201      Date Filed: 03/13/2026     Page: 11



relationship. That burden is especially heavy on Custodia given the stigma attached

to having its account application denied. Even if it succeeds, a correspondent

relationship places it at the mercy of another private institution that might condition

access or terminate it on a whim. But even more troubling, the Reserve Banks claim

discretion to terminate a correspondent relationship at any time. Fed. Rsrv. Banks,

Operating Circular No. 1 § 210 (Sep. 1, 2023),

https://www.frbservices.org/binaries/content/assets/crsocms/resources/rules-

regulations/090123-operating-circular-1.pdf. And correspondent relationships do not

provide access to the full suite of Reserve Bank services. Id. § 2.7 (“Correspondent –

Respondent relationships cannot be established for FedWire® Funds Service

transactions, Fed Funds checks, and Custodial Inventory Program transactions, which

must settle in a Financial Institution’s own Master Account.” (emphasis added)). So

the only way to guarantee full service access for all eligible institutions is for the

Reserve Banks to grant them master accounts upon request.

       Lastly, the Reserve Bank argues it cannot guarantee financial-system stability

without discretion over master accounts. But the Banks have other tools to mitigate

potential risk. A reserve bank can still reject deposits it concludes are risky. Under

12 U.S.C. § 342, and § 248a(c)(2), the Banks can impose on nonmembers all

requirements that apply to members. On the other hand, the Reserve Banks first

started issuing master accounts in 1998 and, to my knowledge, denied an application

for the first time in 2015. See Fourth Corner Credit Union, 861 F.3d at 1053

(opinion of Moritz, J.). That suggests the Fed has managed risky banks with master

                                            9
   Appellate Case: 24-8024     Document: 201        Date Filed: 03/13/2026   Page: 12



accounts for years, and I am confident it still can. The Fed can handle its policy

concerns with policy innovation rather than slamming the door shut to innovative

banks and insulating itself from judicial review.

                                         V.

      Holding that the Reserve Banks have unreviewable discretion over master

accounts places us on the wrong side of the statutes and, likely, that of the

Constitution as well. The case’s consequences for the financial industry and its

impact on the state-federal balance in banking regulation make it exceptionally

important. I would grant the petition for rehearing en banc, and respectfully dissent

from its denial.




                                           10
