                   United States Court of Appeals
                            FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT




No. 23-1332                                                    September Term, 2024
                                                               FILED ON: DECEMBER 26, 2024

ADVANZEON SOLUTIONS, INC.,
                 PETITIONER

v.

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION,
                   RESPONDENT


                                On Petition for Review of an Order
                           of the Securities and Exchange Commission


       Before: SRINIVASAN, Chief Judge, PILLARD and WILKINS, Circuit Judges.

                                        JUDGMENT

        This appeal was considered on the record from the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) and on the briefs of the parties. See D.C. Cir. R. 34(j). The Court has accorded the issues
full consideration and has determined that they do not warrant a published opinion. See D.C. Cir.
R. 36(d). It is hereby

       ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the petition for review be DENIED.

        Petitioner Advanzeon Solutions, Inc., challenges the SEC’s decision to revoke the
registration of all classes of its securities. In 1999, Advanzeon registered its securities under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act), triggering its obligation under the Act to file
quarterly and annual financial reports. See 15 U.S.C. § 78m(a); 17 C.F.R. §§ 240.13a-1, 240.13a-
13. Advanzeon filed its required reports for the periods through the third quarter of 2020. It has
not filed any reports for subsequent periods.

        In October 2023—by which time Advanzeon had failed to file a total of eleven required
reports over a period of three years—the Commission revoked Advanzeon’s registration under
Exchange Act section 12(j). That provision authorizes the Commission to revoke the registration
of any security if the Commission finds that “the issuer[] of such security has failed to comply”
with any Exchange Act provision, rule, or regulation, and the revocation is “necessary or
appropriate for the protection of investors.” 15 U.S.C. § 78l(j). To determine that revocation of
Advanzeon’s registrations was “necessary or appropriate for the protection of investors,” the
Commission applied the five-factor test laid out in Gateway International Holdings, Inc., which
considers:

       [i] the seriousness of the issuer’s violations, [ii] the isolated or recurrent nature of
       the violations, [iii] the degree of culpability involved, [iv] the extent of the issuer’s
       efforts to remedy its past violations and ensure future compliance, and [v] the
       credibility of its assurances, if any, against further violations.

Exchange Act Release No. 53907, 2006 WL 1506286, at *4 (May 31, 2006). The Commission
found that all of the Gateway factors weighed in favor of revoking Advanzeon’s registrations and
issued an order effecting that revocation. J.A. 140, 147.

         Advanzeon acknowledges that it violated its Exchange Act reporting obligations but argues
that, in light of the business and financial difficulties inflicted on it by the Covid-19 pandemic and
various other external causes, the Commission acted arbitrarily and capriciously in finding that
Advanzeon’s reporting violations supported revocation under the Gateway test. That argument is
unpersuasive.

         Advanzeon makes a cursory suggestion that its violations were only “isolated,” rather than
recurrent, but Advanzeon forfeited that potential argument that the second Gateway factor weighs
in its favor by failing to clearly articulate it. See Iowaska Church of Healing v. Werfel, 105 F.4th
402, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2024) (“A party forfeits an argument by mentioning it only in the most skeletal
way . . . .”) (internal quotation marks omitted). Advanzeon’s characterization is also entirely
unfounded in light of its failure to file eleven required reports over a period of three years.

         Advanzeon principally argues that the Commission should not have viewed it as “culpable”
for its reporting delinquencies under the third Gateway factor because its reporting violations were
caused by factors outside of Advanzeon’s control—namely, financial hardships imposed by the
Covid-19 pandemic, multiple accounting firms’ failures to follow through on promises to assist
Advanzeon with its filings, and being in the midst of Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings. That
argument falls far short of demonstrating that the Commission’s determination was arbitrary or
capricious. The Commission reasoned that Advanzeon’s violations “reflect a high degree of
culpability” because it was “aware of the delinquencies and the importance of filing the company’s
periodic reports” but nonetheless failed to do so over an extended period. J.A. 141-42. The
Commission further explained that financial and other business difficulties, whether caused by the
pandemic or not, “do not excuse an issuer’s failure to file periodic reports because such challenges
are precisely the kind of material information that would have been significant to both current and
potential investors in evaluating whether they wanted to buy, sell or hold [the issuer’s] securities.”
J.A. 142 (internal quotation marks omitted). That determination was entirely reasonable and well
within the Commission’s wide discretion to set standards for compliance with Exchange Act
requirements. See, e.g., Siegel v. SEC, 592 F.3d 147, 155 (D.C. Cir. 2010) (noting that the
Commission’s “conclusions regarding sanctions” are “peculiarly a matter for administrative
competence” that this court will reverse “only if the remedy chosen is unwarranted in law or is
without justification in fact”) (internal quotation marks omitted).

                                                  2
        Advanzeon also maintains that, in failing to treat Advanzeon’s Covid-induced deficiencies
more leniently than it did, the Commission violated the “spirit” of its own March 2020 order,
which granted a 45-day extension for periodic reports due by July 1, 2020. That argument is both
forfeited and meritless. It is forfeited because Advanzeon failed to raise it before the Commission.
See Doe v. SEC, 28 F.4th 1306, 1316 (D.C. Cir. 2022). And it is meritless because granting a 45-
day extension in acknowledgement of pandemic-related challenges in March 2020 is not
“inconsistent” with requiring Advanzeon to file timely periodic reports during the ensuing three
years. That is especially so given that the order allowed only a 45-day extension, and by the time
of the revocation order, Advanzeon had failed to file its most overdue report for almost three years.

        Advanzeon’s argument that the Commission should have given it more credit for “doing
its best” to remediate its past delinquencies by filing for bankruptcy and hiring a new accounting
firm fares no better. The Commission relied on substantial and undisputed evidence in determining
that Advanzeon’s remedial efforts were insufficient to call for a milder sanction than revocation.
That evidence included Advanzeon’s failure to remedy any of its previously delinquent filings and
its repeated failures to follow through on promises to file reports as to which it remained
delinquent. In light of these serious failures, nothing suggests that the Commission exceeded the
bounds of its discretion in sanctioning Advanzeon by revoking its registration. Indeed, the
Commission has sanctioned issuers with revocation even though, unlike Advanzeon, they
remedied their delinquent filings once proceedings were initiated. See, e.g., Absolute Potential,
Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 71866, 2014 WL 1338256, at *6–7 (Apr. 4, 2014).

       For the foregoing reasons, we deny Advanzeon’s petition for review.

        Pursuant to D.C. Circuit Rule 36, this disposition will not be published. The Clerk is
directed to withhold issuance of the mandate until seven days after resolution of any timely petition
for rehearing or rehearing en banc. See Fed. R. App. P. 41(b); D.C. Cir. R. 41(a)(1).



                                           Per Curiam

                                                              FOR THE COURT:
                                                              Mark J. Langer, Clerk

                                                      BY:    /s/
                                                             Michael C. McGrail
                                                             Deputy Clerk




                                                 3
