          United States Court of Appeals
                      For the First Circuit

No. 10-1984

                          UNITED STATES,

                            Appellee,

                                v.

                        CARLOS RODRIGUEZ,

                      Defendant, Appellant.


          APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

                FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS

          [Hon. Patti B. Saris, U.S. District Judge]


                              Before

                       Lynch, Chief Judge,
              Howard and Thompson, Circuit Judges.


     Bernard Grossberg for appellant.
     Cynthia A. Young, Assistant U.S. Attorney, with whom Carmen M.
Ortiz, United States Attorney, was on brief, for appellee.




                          March 28, 2012
           THOMPSON, Circuit Judge. Before the ink could dry on its

verdict convicting Carlos Rodriguez of being a felon in possession

of a firearm, the trial judge learned that a pocket-sized New

Testament Bible was found in the jury deliberation room. The judge

promptly notified Rodriguez's counsel of the discovery and he

immediately filed a motion for a new trial.        In his motion, counsel

argued   that   the   Bible's   presence    in   the   jury   room   violated

Rodriguez's Sixth Amendment right to a trial before an impartial

jury and his Sixth Amendment right to confront the witnesses

against him.    To determine what role the Bible may have played in

the jury's deliberations, Rodriguez asked the trial judge to recall

each juror for purposes of conducting an individual voir dire. The

motion was denied. Thereafter, Rodriguez filed a second motion for

a new trial, which, unlike the first, was related to the actual

trial proceedings.      This time around, Rodriguez claimed that the

prosecutor made improper comments during closing and rebuttal

arguments that violated Rodriguez's Fifth Amendment rights. Again,

the motion was denied.

           Before this court, Rodriguez contends the district court

erred in denying both motions.             Additionally, he claims that

certain alleged errors by his defense counsel denied him his

constitutional rights to due process and effective assistance of

counsel.   After careful review of the record, we discern no error

and therefore affirm.


                                   -2-
I.             BACKGROUND

A.   Facts

  1.       The Police Discovery of the AK-47

               Late in the evening on September 24, 2006, a parked,

unattended, green Toyota Camry caught the attention of Methuen

police officer Justin Law ("Law").        He recorded the license plate

number of the car and made several observations.              First, he

detected no signs of ignition damage, indicating to him that the

car had not been stolen.       Second, the hood of the car was warm,

causing Law to believe that the car had been recently driven.       The

car was also unlocked.      Law peered inside and saw in plain view the

buttstock of an AK-47.      He recognized the firearm "immediately."

               Law called for backup and he and his fellow officers

removed the AK-47 from the car and looked it over -- it was loaded

with one round of ammunition in the chamber and 24 additional

rounds in the magazine.       With the assistance of other responding

officers, Law searched the entire inside of the car, as well as the

trunk.       Inside the car, officers discovered marijuana, a scale, a

GPS, binoculars, and a driver's license issued to William "Billy"

Ryan.1      Body armor was found in the trunk.   Sometime later, Law ran

the license plate number of the car and identified Melodee Sweeney

("Sweeney") as the owner.


       1
      For purposes of this opinion, it will suffice to know that
"Billy" Ryan was a friend of Rodriguez's who lived at Rodriguez's
mother's house in Lawrence, Massachusetts.

                                    -3-
  2.    The Police Encounter with Rodriguez

             Methuen Police Officers Jeffrey Brouck ("Brouck") and

James Gunter ("Gunter") were among those officers who responded to

Law's call for backup.      Brouck said he was on patrol in the parking

lot at Morse Park, a park containing a few baseball fields and a

skateboard park, for "under ten minutes" before he was ordered by

a sergeant "to go out and look for any individuals in [the]

immediate area."     As he left the park, Brouck "saw a Hispanic male

walking towards [him] wearing a red shirt, a black hat, and light

blue pants."     This individual was later identified as Rodriguez.

Brouck stopped his cruiser.

             Gunter, who was directly behind Brouck in a separate

police car, stopped as well and together the officers approached

Rodriguez. Gunter asked him if he had any identification, to which

Rodriguez replied that he did not.          Nonetheless, he offered a name

-- "Edward Santiago" -- and a home address -- 48 Warren Street,

Lawrence, Massachusetts.       He also provided a date of birth and

Social Security number. Brouck radioed this information to Methuen

dispatch who confirmed that "Santiago" had a valid driver's license

and    no   outstanding   warrants.     When   asked   where   he   had   been

immediately before his contact with the officers, Rodriguez said he

had been at a nearby Dunkin' Donuts.           After answering all of the

officers' questions, Rodriguez asked them to call him a taxi, which

they did.     After sending Rodriguez on his way the officers split


                                      -4-
up.     Brouck went to the Dunkin' Donuts Rodriguez said he had

visited and Gunter headed to 48 Water Street, the home address

Rodriguez had given.       Come to find out, 48 Water Street did not

exist.

  3.    Rodriguez's phone conversation at Dunkin' Donuts

              Brouck found out Rodriguez had in fact visited the nearby

Dunkin' Donuts earlier that evening.           At trial, a former Dunkin'

Donuts employee, Joseph John Garofalo ("Garofalo"), testified that

on the night of September 24, 2006, a "[v]ery aggressive and mad"

customer had caught his attention. Garofalo described the customer

as a "Spanish male about five-seven," who was wearing a "red hat

[and] baggy clothes."      He said the customer was "walking around,

talking," and "[j]ust [seemed] very agitated."              While inside the

Dunkin' Donuts, the man -- whom Garofalo later identified as

Rodriguez -- made approximately three different phone calls from

his    cell   phone.    Garofalo   overheard    one   end   of   one   of   the

conversations.      He heard Rodriguez say, "[t]ell the girl the car

had been stolen."      He also heard Rodriguez say: "Go get the AK-47

out of the car. And there's something else in the car.           Go get it.

It's in the trunk.       You know what it is."        Not long thereafter,

Rodriguez headed out of the Dunkin' Donuts, stopped to ask Garofalo

for a cigarette, and walked away.




                                    -5-
 4.    Sweeney's statement to police -- Take One -- and Rodriguez
      and Sweeney's flight to New York

           Around midnight on September 24, 2006, Lawrence police

contacted Sweeney and told her she needed to come to the station to

get her car.     She did not go until approximately 5 p.m. on

September 25, 2006.    At the station Lawrence and Methuen police

officers interviewed Sweeney four separate times, over the course

of four hours.   During these interviews, Sweeney told police that

someone had stolen her car after she left the keys in it while

running a quick errand.     This was a lie.   When asked if she had

seen Rodriguez the day before, on September 24, 2006, she told the

officers no. This too was a lie.2

           The police, suspicious of Sweeney's story, told her that

they did not believe her.    Moreover, they let her know that they

were looking for Rodriguez, had found an AK-47 and body armor in

her car, and were planning to subpoena her phone records.     After

the interviews were over, Sweeney did not stick around. She headed

to her home in Pelham, New Hampshire.         According to Sweeney,

Rodriguez "showed up at [her] house late that night" and Sweeney

filled him in on the specifics of what happened at the police



      2
      Sweeney would later change her story to admit that Rodriguez,
Sweeney's then boyfriend whom she had known for approximately
fifteen years, had her car with her permission and had taken it "to
go handle something," and that Sweeney had been with Rodriguez most
of the day on September 24, 2006, ending up at Rodriguez's sister's
house.    They stayed there together until Rodriguez left with
Sweeney's car later that evening.

                                 -6-
station.      At trial, Sweeney said that Rodriguez acted "nervous"

upon learning that the police were looking for him and he decided

"[they]      needed   to   get   out    of   [Massachusetts]"   for   awhile.

According to Sweeney, Rodriguez felt the couple should flee to

Rochester, New York.             So they did.      They hung out there for

approximately three weeks at Rodriguez's uncle's house.

 5.       Sweeney's statement to police -- Take Two -- upon her return
          to Massachusetts

              Eventually, Sweeney decided to return to Massachusetts

because of her children.3              Knowing full well the police would

likely have more questions for her, she and Rodriguez concocted a

story, first to dissuade the police from looking for Rodriguez in

New York, and second, to clear Sweeney's name.           The duo agreed that

Sweeney would tell the police that she and Rodriguez had taken her

car to Worcester, Massachusetts together and that it had taken her

three weeks to come back because she "was scared for [her] life."4

Sticking to their plan, Sweeney went to the Methuen Police Station

on October 30, 2006 and repeated the false story to the police.             To

this fabrication, she added yet another -- that she and Rodriguez

"fought," that "[she had been] abused by him," and that he had


      3
      By this time, Sweeney had learned that there was a warrant
out for her arrest based on her filing a false stolen vehicle
report.   She also learned that the police had questioned her
brother, a Massachusetts state trooper, and gone to the home of her
father, a Massachusetts correctional officer.
      4
      We are unable to discern from the record what or whom
Sweeney was supposed to be scared of.

                                         -7-
taken her to Worcester against her will.            Additionally, she told

the police that on September 24, 2006, Rodriguez had taken her car

without her permission and then told her to report it stolen.

 6. Sweeney's testimony before the Grand Jury -- Take Three --
 and Sweeney's statement during the summer before trial -- Take
 Four

               Rodriguez stayed in New York until he was found and

arrested there around December of 20075 -- approximately 15 months

after the discovery of the AK-47 in the abandoned car.

               In July of 2008, Sweeney appeared before a federal grand

jury as a witness for the government in regard to the present case.

There, she denied having seen or known anything about the AK-47,

admitted that her October 30, 2006 story to police about going to

Worcester had been a lie, and stated that Rodriguez had gone to New

York, but that she had stayed in touch with him by phone.

               Changing stories one more time during the summer of 2009,

Sweeney told the prosecutor assigned to the case and a Bureau of

Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives agent that she was

actually with Rodriguez in New York -- not that she had simply kept

in touch with him by phone.

  7.       Sweeney's testimony on the eve of trial -- Take Five

               On   Sunday,   September    20,   2009,   the   night   before

Rodriguez's trial, Sweeney signed a letter of immunity insulating



       5
      The record is devoid of any details surrounding Rodriguez's
apprehension.

                                     -8-
her from prosecution based on the prior, false statements she made

to police officers throughout their investigation, as well as the

false statements she made before the grand jury. She was also

granted immunity for any of the underlying criminal acts she had

admitted to.      After securing this immunity agreement Sweeney told

the government for the first time that she had seen Rodriguez with

the AK-47 found in her car the day before she reported the car

stolen.       Similarly, Sweeney mentioned, again for the first time,

that Rodriguez had planned to, and actually did, rob his mother's

Cuban neighbors of cocaine, wearing a bulletproof vest and carrying

an AK-47.       That night, the government sent Rodriguez's counsel a

letter informing them of Sweeney's latest version of events.

  8.    Rodriguez's response to Sweeney's latest version of events

              On the first morning of trial, Rodriguez's counsel argued

that Rodriguez was prejudiced by Sweeney's latest version of

events, which had been brought to counsel's attention for the first

time on the eve of trial.          Moreover, counsel argued that given the

numerous versions offered by Sweeney, her testimony was so lacking

in credibility that it should be stricken completely.

              Though the government did not concede that Rodriguez had

in     fact    been   prejudiced     by    Sweeney's   late   disclosure,   it

nonetheless asserted that it was willing to take a "middle-of-the-

road" approach and refrain from mentioning the alleged robbery as

long as it could present evidence to the jury that Sweeney: (1) saw


                                          -9-
Rodriguez in possession of the gun the day before it was recovered

by the police and (2) knew when Rodriguez took her car on September

24, 2006, that he was "going to do a deal."                 According to the

government, this would allow into evidence testimony that it felt

was crucial to making its case while at the same time alleviating

any   prejudice,      assuming   there   was   prejudice,    to   Rodriguez.

However, the defense argued that the two recent allegations which

the government sought to introduce at trial were "inextricably

linked"    to   Sweeney's   other   numerous     versions    of   events   and,

therefore, any effort by the district court to "prune out" some of

Sweeney's testimony, but not all, would not effectively "extract

the prejudice from the situation."6

            The district court denied the defense's motion to strike

Sweeney's testimony in the entirety. Instead, it limited the scope

of Sweeney's testimony regarding her latest version of events to

two days -- the day before the gun was recovered, September 23,

2006, and the day the gun was recovered, September 24, 2006.

Although the alleged robbery took place on September 23, 2006, the

district     court    nonetheless    prohibited    the      prosecution    from

mentioning      it.    Defense   counsel    expressed    concern    that   this


      6
      Additionally, defense counsel argued that such testimony
should be excluded under Fed. R. Evid. 404(b). The district court
stated on a few different occasions that it was not sure if the
evidence defense counsel sought to exclude constituted 404(b)
evidence.   While resolution of the issue is not essential for
purposes of this appeal, we nonetheless note that counsel's 404(b)
argument was weak.

                                     -10-
"sanitized version" of events surrounding Sweeney's last minute

disclosures    would     prevent   them      from    cross-examining    Sweeney

regarding the "outrageousness" of her robbery story. Acknowledging

defense counsel's "dilemma," the district court stated that it

would give counsel "huge latitude in trying to figure out what to

do with that."      Ultimately, defense counsel introduced the alleged

robbery during cross-examination of Sweeney in an attempt to

illustrate her history of lying and lack of credibility.

B. Procedural History

            On October 2, 2009, a jury found Rodriguez guilty of

being   a   felon   in   possession    of    a    firearm   and   ammunition   in

violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1).              Shortly thereafter, the trial

judge informed Rodriguez's counsel, by letter, that her law clerks

had seen a "pocket-sized New Testament on top of a juror notebook

on the table in the jury room."             In the letter, the trial judge

explained that she was "bring[ing] this matter to [counsel's]

attention for whatever steps, if any, [defense counsel] think[s]

are appropriate."

            On October 7, 2009, Rodriguez filed a motion for a new

trial, claiming that the presence of the Bible in the jury room had

tainted the jury thereby violating two separate Sixth Amendment

constitutional rights -- his right to confrontation and his right

to a trial before an impartial jury.               After holding a hearing on

the motion, approximately three weeks after the jury had been

discharged, at which the jury foreperson testified that the Bible

                                      -11-
was    not      discussed      during    jury     deliberations,     the   court   was

satisfied that the jury had not been improperly influenced by the

Bible's presence and therefore denied the motion.                    It also denied

Rodriguez's alternative request that the court recall each juror

for an individual voir dire.7              Rodriguez filed a second motion for

a new trial on October 13, 2009 -- this time arguing that the

government        violated      his     constitutional       right   against    self-

incrimination when it stated in its closing that Rodriguez "acted

like       a   guilty   man"    and     further    arguing   that    the   government

improperly vouched for its witnesses in rebuttal.                          Again, the

district court denied the motion. On September 29, 2010, Rodriguez

was sentenced to fifteen years' imprisonment and five years of

supervised release.            This appeal followed.

II.             Discussion

A. Ineffective Assistance of Counsel8

                Before getting into the merits of Rodriguez’s claim, we

must first address a preliminary matter dealing with the procedural

posture of this case.



       7
      The district court failed to mention Rodriguez's Sixth
Amendment Confrontation Clause argument in its Order and
Memorandum, though Rodriguez did present the argument in his motion
for a new trial, in fact, the same exact argument, word for word,
that he presents on appeal.
       8
      In his brief, Rodriguez also states, without explanation,
that his right to due process was violated. Thus, this issue is
deemed waived. See United States v. Zannino, 895 F.2d 1, 17 (1st
Cir. 1990) (holding that issues raised in a perfunctory manner with
no attempt at developed argumentation are deemed waived).

                                           -12-
          Rodriguez failed to present his ineffective assistance of

counsel claim to the district court and is instead raising it now,

for the first time on this direct appeal.               "We have held with a

regularity bordering on the monotonous" that ineffective assistance

of counsel claims, which require a showing of deficient attorney

performance and prejudice to the defendant, "must originally be

presented to, and acted upon by, the trial court."9             United States

v. Mala, 7 F.3d 1058, 1063 (1st Cir. 1993). "This is because an

appellate court usually is ill-equipped to handle the fact-specific

inquiry that such claims often require."          United States v. Ofray-

Campos, 534 F.3d 1, 34 (1st Cir. 2008).         "In addition, the insights

of the trier, who has seen and heard the witnesses at first hand

and watched the dynamics of the trial unfold, are often of great

assistance."    United States v. Moran, 393 F.3d 1, 10 (1st Cir.

2004).   It    is   only   in   exceptional     cases    when   there   are   no

"critical" facts in dispute and the record has been sufficiently

developed that we will address an ineffective assistance of counsel

claim on direct appeal.         Ofray-Campos, 534 F.3d at 34; United

States v. Torres-Rosario, 447 F.3d 61, 64 (1st Cir. 2006).

          Though    Rodriguez     failed   to    present    his   ineffective

assistance of counsel claim to the district court both parties



     9
      Our general practice is to deny an appellant's ineffective
assistance of counsel claim without prejudice to his right to renew
it, if he chooses, by means of a petition under 28 U.S.C. § 2255.
See United States v. Fornia-Castillo, 408 F.3d 52, 65 (1st Cir.
2005).

                                    -13-
agree that this is one of those "case[s] that presents an exception

to the well-settled rule," and warrants our review of the claim.

Ofray-Campos, 534 F.3d at 34.       While we are not bound by the

parties' agreement and reaffirm our position that such claims are

better suited for the district court in the first instance, we

nonetheless agree with the parties that the record is sufficiently

developed and the claimed errors sufficiently clear to address

Rodriguez's deficient counsel contentions.       See United States v.

Gonzalez-Arimont, 268 F.3d 8, 13 (1st Cir. 2001) (finding that

defendant's ineffective assistance of counsel claim fell "squarely

within" the exception to the preference for resolving such claims

by means of collateral attack); cf. Ofray-Campos, 534 F.3d at 34

("We cannot tell from the record whether [counsel's] decision

. . . was a legitimate tactical decision at the time that it was

made or deficient performance in violation of [the defendant's]

right to effective assistance of counsel."). With that settled, we

now move to the merits.

          Rodriguez alleges that his trial counsel was ineffective

for two reasons: (1) counsel elicited testimony from Sweeney, which

the   trial   court   had   precluded   the   government   from   doing,

specifically, the information regarding the alleged Cuban robbery

and (2) counsel failed to object to the prosecutor's questions to

Sweeney regarding her immunity agreement with the government.

          For Rodriguez to succeed on his ineffective assistance of

counsel claim he "must show both deficient performance by counsel

                                 -14-
and resulting prejudice."     Tevlin v. Spencer, 621 F.3d 59, 66 (1st

Cir. 2010) (citing Strickland v. Washington, 466 U.S. 668, 687

(1984)).

           "In order to satisfy the 'deficient performance' prong,

[Rodriguez] must show that his trial counsel's representation 'fell

below an objective standard of reasonableness.'"              Id. (quoting

Strickland, 466 U.S. at 688).         "Judicial scrutiny of counsel's

performance must be highly deferential" to avoid "the distorting

effects of hindsight" and allow us "to evaluate the conduct from

counsel's perspective at the time."         Strickland, 466 U.S. at 689.

Moreover, we must assess counsel's reasonableness in light of

"prevailing professional norms."      Id. at 688-89.     That said, there

is "a strong presumption that counsel's conduct falls within the

wide range of reasonable professional assistance."            Id. at 689.

Therefore, Rodriguez "must overcome the presumption that . . . the

challenged action 'might be considered sound trial strategy.'" Id.

(quoting Michel v. Louisiana, 350 U.S. 91, 101 (1955)).             "[T]his

court has held that a lawyer's performance is deficient under

Strickland   'only   where,   given   the    facts   known   at   the   time,

counsel's choice was so patently unreasonable that no competent

attorney would have made it.'"        Tevlin, 621 F.3d at 66 (quoting

Knight v. Spencer, 447 F.3d 6, 15 (1st Cir. 2006)).

           To   demonstrate   "prejudice,"      Rodriguez    must   show   "a

reasonable   probability   that,   but    for   counsel's    unprofessional

errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different."

                                   -15-
Porter v. McCollum, 130 S. Ct. 447, 453 (2009) (internal quotation

marks and citation omitted); see also Moreno-Espada v. United

States, 666 F.3d 60, 64 (1st Cir. 2012).                   This does not require

Rodriguez to show "that counsel's deficient conduct more likely

than not altered the outcome" of his trial, but it does require "a

probability sufficient to undermine confidence in [that] outcome."

Porter, 130 S. Ct. at 455-56 (internal quotation marks and citation

omitted).

            Rodriguez       first argues       that   he    received   ineffective

assistance of counsel because trial counsel elicited testimony from

Sweeney regarding Rodriguez's participation in the robbery of his

mother's neighbors, which the trial judge had prohibited the

government from introducing.            Rodriguez contends that his trial

counsel made an unreasonable strategic decision when, despite the

district    court's     ruling,    counsel       nonetheless      introduced    the

excluded evidence during cross-examination of Sweeney.

            After careful consideration of the record, it is clear

that trial counsel mentioned Rodriguez's alleged participation in

the   robbery   of    his    mother's    neighbors     as    a   matter   of   trial

strategy.    Counsel sought to portray Sweeney's robbery story as

outrageous -- indeed, a made up fabrication -- and if the jury

found this portion of her testimony unbelievable, then doubt would

be cast on all of her testimony.          Discrediting Sweeney's testimony

was crucial to the defendant's case, particularly because Sweeney

was the only witness who placed Rodriguez in the car with the AK-47

                                        -16-
and the bulletproof vest. With the veracity of Sweeney's testimony

already at issue due to her various false statements and multiple

versions of events to the police and government, all of which were

hammered on cross-examination, if the trial strategy had been

accepted, defense counsel could have convinced the jury that

Rodriguez never had the AK-47 in his possession.              While defense

counsel's strategy ultimately proved unconvincing to the jury, it

was not "so patently unreasonable that no competent attorney would

have made it."    Knight, 447 F.3d at 15 (internal quotation marks

omitted).

            Rodriguez   next   argues    that   his   trial    counsel   was

deficient because counsel failed to object to the prosecutor's

questions regarding Sweeney's immunity.         On direct examination the

prosecutor asked Sweeney:

            What . . . is your obligation . . . under this
            immunity agreement?
            . . .
            What do you understand the U.S. Attorney's
            office has promised in exchange for your
            cooperation and truthful testimony?
            . . .
            [W]hat is your understanding as to what
            happens to you if you don't cooperate or
            testify truthfully in this case?

In response to the prosecutor's questions, Sweeney testified that

her understanding of her immunity agreement was that she had to

tell the truth or she would be prosecuted for perjury.              Defense

counsel did not object.        Rodriguez claims that trial counsel's




                                  -17-
failure to object allowed her testimony to be bolstered as being

truthful.    We are unconvinced.

            It is well-established that introducing into evidence an

immunity agreement during direct examination is not automatically

impermissible bolstering. See United States v. McNeil, 728 F.2d 5,

14 (1st Cir. 1984) (stating that the need for immunity undercuts

any bolstering of the witness's veracity); see also United States

v. Gentles, 619 F.3d 75, 86 (1st Cir. 2010) (holding that the

government "properly may admit a witness's plea agreement into

evidence, discuss the details of the plea during closing arguments,

and comment upon a witness's incentive to testify truthfully"

(quoting United States v. Bey, 188 F.3d 1, 7 (1st Cir. 1999)));

United States v. Martin, 815 F.2d 818, 821-22 (1st Cir. 1987)

(holding that the admission of a plea agreement does not constitute

bolstering).       Therefore, even if trial counsel had objected, an

objection on the ground of bolstering would not have been properly

sustained.     Consequently, the failure to make such an objection

could not have been deficient.

            This    brings   us   to    the   end   of   our   discussion   of

Rodriguez's    ineffective    assistance      of    counsel    claim.10   Under


     10
      Rodriguez also argues that defense counsel's failure to
request a continuance when he learned of Sweeney's new testimony on
the eve of trial and counsel's failure to conduct further
investigation of her new testimony constituted a constructive
denial of Rodriguez's right to counsel.         However, Rodriguez
provides no support for his argument nor does he develop his
argument under the Strickland standard for ineffective assistance
of counsel. Strickland, 466 U.S. at 687. Thus, this argument is

                                       -18-
Strickland, Rodriguez has the burden of showing both deficient

performance and prejudice.          466 U.S. at 687. Because Rodriguez has

failed   to    show   his   trial    counsel   performed   deficiently,   his

ineffective assistance of counsel claim fails.              See Tevlin, 621

F.3d at 66 ("A defendant’s failure to satisfy one prong of the

Strickland analysis obviates the need for a court to consider the

remaining prong.").

B. Rodriguez's First Motion for a New Trial -- Jury Taint

  1.   Standard of Review

              We review the district court's denial of a motion for a

new trial for an abuse of discretion.          See United States v. Boylan,

898 F.2d 230, 262 (1st Cir. 1990).

              We review the district court's response to allegations of

improper influence upon the jury under the same standard -- abuse

of discretion.        See id.   While the "district court is obliged to

investigate plausible allegations of improper influence on a jury

verdict," the court nonetheless "has broad discretion to determine

the type of investigation which must be mounted." United States v.

Meader, 118 F.3d 876, 880 (1st Cir. 1997) (internal quotation marks

omitted); see Mahoney v. Vondergritt, 938 F.2d 1490, 1492 (1st Cir.

1991); see also United States v. Corbin, 590 F.2d 398, 400 (1st



deemed waived. Rivera-Gomez v. de Castro, 843 F.2d 631, 635 (1st
Cir. 1988) ("a litigant has an obligation 'to spell out its
argument squarely and distinctly,' or else forever hold its peace")
(quoting Paterson-Leitch Co. v. Mass. Mun. Wholesale Elec. Co., 840
F.2d 985, 990 (1st Cir. 1988) (internal citation omitted)).

                                      -19-
Cir. 1979) ("A district court has broad, though not unlimited,

discretion to determine the extent and nature of its inquiry into

allegations of juror bias.").       "The trial judge may, but need not,

convene a fullblown evidentiary hearing." Boylan, 898 F.2d at 258.

Instead,     the    court's   "primary   obligation   is   to   fashion   a

responsible procedure for ascertaining whether misconduct actually

occurred and if so, whether it was prejudicial."           Id.; see also

United States v. Ortiz-Arrigoitia, 996 F.2d 436, 442-43 (1st Cir.

1993).

 2.    Discussion

  a.    Confrontation Clause Argument

            Rodriguez claims that the presence of the Bible in the

jury room violated his Sixth Amendment right to confront the

witnesses against him because the "Confrontation Clause requires

that a jury verdict must be based on the evidence developed at

trial."     According to Rodriguez, the Confrontation Clause implies

that the evidence against him must come from the witness stand in

a public trial where there is complete judicial protection of his

constitutional rights, particularly, the right to confront the

witnesses against him.          Accordingly, he contends that "these

critical components of the Sixth Amendment" require that "extrinsic

information or influences upon a jury's deliberations [be regarded]

as presumptively prejudicial."11


       11
      The Sixth Amendment gives all defendants in criminal
proceedings the right to trial by an impartial jury and the right

                                    -20-
              Given       Rodriguez's      cursory         treatment     of    this    issue,

approximately half a page, which we note stands in sharp contrast

to his treatment of his impartial jury argument, we are unable to

discern what his exact Confrontation Clause argument is. Though he

cites a few Supreme Court cases for support, our review of those

cases does nothing to shed light on his argument.                              Moreover, we

note that this argument is so poorly presented, the government

fails to mention it even once in its fifty-five page brief.                            In any

event, it is not the job of this court to do Rodriguez's work for

him and we decline to do so.               Accordingly, this argument is deemed

waived.       See United States v. Zannino, 895 F.2d 1, 17 (1st Cir.

1990) ("It is not enough merely to mention a possible argument in

the most skeletal way, leaving the court to do counsel's work,

create    the    ossature      for    the      argument,      and   put       flesh   on    its

bones."); see also Rivera-Gomez v. de Castro, 843 F.2d 631, 635

(1st Cir. 1988) ("Judges are not expected to be mindreaders.

Consequently,         a    litigant      has    an    obligation    to    spell       out   its

arguments squarely and distinctly, or else forever hold its peace."

(internal quotation marks and citation omitted)).

  b.    Impartial Jury Argument

              Rodriguez also argues that the presence of the Bible in

the    jury    room       during   the    course      of    his   trial   was     extrinsic



to be confronted with the witnesses against them. U.S. Const.
amend. VI.

                                               -21-
information that improperly influenced the jury in violation of his

constitutional   right   to   a   trial   before   an   impartial   jury.

According to Rodriguez, "[t]he Bible is, not just any book, as to

millions of people, it is a primary source of moral teaching and a

source of 'divine' law that surpasses all other law, including

federal criminal law."    Consequently, he argues that its presence

in the jury room during deliberations necessarily impacted the

jury's impartiality because they were improperly influenced by

matters -- the scripture -- external to the trial proceedings.

According to Rodriguez, the Bible's presence in the jury room was

"presumptively prejudicial" and "requires a new trial in the

interest of justice" because an eight-day trial was followed by

almost four days of jury deliberations, including two separate

communications to the court indicating that the jury could not

reach a decision.   Because the jury returned a verdict of guilty a

few hours after the court delivered an Allen charge,12 Rodriguez

argues that "[t]hese facts give rise to a strong inference that the

Bible played a role in the post-Allen charge deliberations leading

to the verdict" and that "[a] new trial is the appropriate remedy."

          In further support of his argument he contends that the

district court's investigation into the amount of influence, if

any, that the Bible had on jury deliberations and the extent of any


     12
      An Allen charge is an instruction given to a jury that is
having difficulty agreeing on a verdict. Allen v. United States,
164 U.S. 492, 501 (1896).

                                   -22-
taint which may have resulted was inadequate.   Relying heavily on

this court's decision in United States v. Lara-Ramirez, 519 F.3d 76

(1st Cir. 2008), Rodriguez argues that (1) the trial judge erred by

refusing to conduct an individual voir dire of every juror to see

if the Bible had any influence on the jury's deliberations, and (2)

the trial judge's decision to call back only the foreperson to

testify at a hearing on the matter was insufficient to dispel any

concern that the jurors were exposed to an improper, external

influence.13   Therefore, according to Rodriguez, at the very least

"[t]he case must be remanded to the district court to recall each

juror for individual voir dire [in order] to investigate the nature

and extent of the taint."   We disagree with Rodriguez's assertion

that he is entitled to a new trial, as well as his alternative

argument that he is entitled to a remand to the district court.

          In Lara-Ramirez, the court reporter informed the court

that she had seen a Bible in the jury room while she was reading

the transcript to the jury -- this was in response to the jury's

letter to the court requesting the transcript of the defendant's


     13
      Two additional cases relied upon by Rodriguez are equally
unavailing.    Unlike the facts of this case, in Oliver v.
Quarterman, 541 F.3d 329, 331-32, 339 (5th Cir. 2008), cert.
denied, 129 S. Ct. 1985 (2009), there was evidence that the jury
actually used the Bible during deliberations. Likewise, in Meader,
118 F.3d at 878-80, we held that a district court's response to an
allegation that a defense witness spoke to a juror's son, which
consisted of reviewing the voir dire transcript and interviewing
the juror, was a "textbook model of conscientiousness." We did not
require the court to go so far as to interview the son. Id. at
880-81.

                                -23-
testimony.    Id. at 79.       Thereafter, the jury sent a second letter

to the court saying it was deadlocked.         Id.   With counsel for both

sides present, the court questioned the jury foreperson about the

Bible and its use in the jury's deliberation.              Id. at 80.    The

court's questioning of the jury foreperson established that the

juror who brought the Bible into the jury room "used the Bible in

deliberations" and urged the other jury members to "hear the facts,

but also consider what God says in the Bible," or "something like

that." Id. at 80. Despite defense counsel's suggestion to conduct

individual interviews with each of the jurors and to provide a

curative instruction directing the jury to disregard anything

discussed    in   reference     to   the   Bible,   the   court   declared   a

mistrial14. Id. at 80-81.

            We held that the district court committed an abuse of

discretion and remanded with instructions to vacate the defendant's

conviction.15     Id. at 89.    While "we recognize[d] that the presence

of the Bible in the jury room posed an unusual situation for the



     14
      On appeal to this court, the defendant argued that he did not
consent to a mistrial due to the presence of a Bible during jury
deliberations in his first trial and therefore, his motion to
dismiss his second trial on double jeopardy grounds should have
been granted. Lara-Ramirez, 519 F.3d at 79.
     15
      Because the district court erred in declaring a mistrial, we
found that it also erred in denying the defendant's motion to
dismiss his second trial on double jeopardy grounds. Consequently,
on remand, we instructed the district court to not only vacate the
defendant's conviction, but to also dismiss the indictment. Lara-
Ramirez, 519 F.3d at 89.

                                     -24-
district court," we nonetheless stated "that the inquiry conducted

by the court was inadequate to support a finding that a mistrial

was manifestly necessary."   Id. at 86.   In so holding, we noted

that "[t]he court questioned only the court reporter and the jury

foreperson," and stated that this "minimal investigation" was

insufficient to "establish[] the magnitude of the 'taint-producing

event' and the 'extent of any resultant prejudice.'"   Id. (quoting

United States v. Bradshaw 281 F.3d 278, 289 (1st Cir. 2002)).

          Lara-Ramirez is distinguishable from the present case.

Here, after consulting with counsel, the district court held a

hearing at which the foreperson, under oath, testified. Unlike the

foreperson's testimony in Lara-Ramirez, in response to the district

court's questions concerning the presence and use of the Bible

during jury deliberations, the foreperson in this case testified

that as far as she could remember the Bible did not come up at all

during deliberations she led, nor did she recall ever seeing it

open.   Based on the foreperson's testimony, the district court

found the hearing sufficient to dispel any concern that the Bible

had been used during deliberations and that the jury had been

improperly exposed to an extraneous influence.   With "no evidence

of any extraneous influence on [the] deliberations," the district

court declined to "haul" in the rest of the jury in order to

conduct an individual voir dire of each one for the sole "purpose[]




                               -25-
of investigating the possibility of misconduct that [was], at best,

wholly speculative." This decision was not an abuse of discretion.

            Let us be clear.    Lara-Ramirez does not stand for the

proposition that a judge must conduct an individual voir-dire of

each and every juror in any circumstance where a Bible or some

other extrinsic material is argued to have improperly influenced

the jury.    Rather, based on the specific facts of Lara-Ramirez, we

found that the district court judge abused his discretion by not

doing more to determine the extent of any improper jury influence

on the broader panel before concluding that no curative instruction

could remove any possible jury taint.         519 F.3d at 86-89.    It is

the circumstances of each case that will determine the level of

inquiry necessary. However, what is required, as was done here, is

that the judge conduct enough of an investigation to eliminate any

lingering uncertainty as to whether any extrinsic information was

used to improperly influence the jury.           Id. at 86.      In this

instance, the district court's decision to question only the

foreperson    was   adequate   and    well   within   its   discretion.

Consequently, the district court's denial of Rodriguez's motion for

a new trial and its refusal to conduct an individual voir dire of

each juror was not an abuse of discretion.




                                     -26-
C. Rodriguez’s Second Motion for a New Trial - Prosecutorial
   Misconduct

            As we previously stated, we review the district court's

denial of a motion for a new trial for abuse of discretion.              See

Boylan, 898 F.2d at 262; see also discussion supra, Part II.B.1.

  1.   Closing Argument

    a.    Standard of Review

            We review de novo whether an objected-to statement was

improper.    United States v. Ayala-Garcia, 574 F.3d 5, 16 (1st Cir.

2009).     If we conclude that the       statement was improper we "must

then     determine   whether   [it]     resulted   in   prejudice   to   the

defendant." United States v. Azubike, 504 F.3d 30, 38-39 (1st Cir.

2007); see also United States v. Joyner, 191 F.3d 47, 53 (1st Cir.

1999) (stating that harmless error review is a review of whether

the argument resulted in adequate prejudice to warrant a new

trial).

    b. Discussion

            During closing argument the prosecutor argued, as the

last step in a nine step argument:

            [The defendant] acted like a guilty man. What
            did he do? Did he come forward and say, "You
            got the wrong person.    I had nothing to do
            with it"? Did he come forward and say, "Look,
            all right, I lied when you stopped me, but
            here’s the reason why.     Here’s what I was
            really concerned about"? Did he do anything
            like that? No.




                                      -27-
            Rodriguez       argues   that    the   prosecutor's         statements

violated his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination by

taking the burden of proof away from the government, placing it

upon Rodriguez, and requiring him to have affirmatively "claimed

his innocence to the police, by saying 'It was not me.'"                Rodriguez

further    argues   that     the   prosecutor's    statements       were   not   an

"invited reply" in response to defense counsel's argument and that

the   district    court's     curative   instruction      was     not   enough   to

"eliminate   the    harmful    prejudice"     caused   by   the     prosecutor's

remarks.     As     such,    Rodriguez   alleges    that    the     prosecutor's

statements were not harmless.

            Assuming       without    deciding     that     the     prosecutor's

statements were improper and violated Rodriguez's Fifth Amendment

rights, we still must resolve whether the error was prejudicial.

See United States v. Giorgi, 840 F.2d 1022, 1037 (1st Cir. 1988)

("Even were we to find the prosecutor's methods improper, that

alone would not suffice to reverse the conviction . . . . [A] party

must show both misconduct and resulting prejudice.") (citation

omitted).    "The test is 'whether the prosecutor's misconduct so

poisoned the well that the trial's outcome was likely affected,

thus warranting a new trial.'"           Azubike, 504 F.3d at 39 (quoting

Joyner, 191 F.3d at 54) (internal quotation marks omitted).                      To

make this determination, we apply a three part test.                See Gentles,

619 F.3d at 81-82.      "First, we determine whether the prosecutor's


                                      -28-
conduct was isolated and/or deliberate; next, we consider whether

the trial court gave a strong and explicit cautionary instruction;

and finally we determine whether it is likely that any prejudice

surviving the instruction could have affected the outcome of the

case."     Id. (internal quotation marks and citation removed).

             In regard to the first prong, the prosecutor's statements

were isolated and brief.     The prosecutor's statements consisted of

only a few sentences in twenty-six pages of closing argument.

Moreover, as soon as defense counsel objected, the district court

called both parties to side-bar and asked defense counsel what

curative instruction counsel would like for the court to make.

Thereafter, the district court gave a curative instruction16 to the

jury and the prosecutor never returned to the subject.

             Further, based on our review of the record, we think the

prosecutor's statements, even if improper, were not a deliberate

attempt to violate Rodriguez’s Fifth Amendment rights.17      Indeed,


     16
          The district court stated the following:

     I am striking the line of argument that was just made. I
     want to remind you that, and I'll be talking about it
     again, but a defendant has a Fifth Amendment right here.
     We talked about that on the first day of trial. A
     defendant has no obligation whatsoever to say anything at
     all, and it is improper to consider that at all in the
     jury deliberation room. And so whatever he did that
     night, he had no obligation to say anything or do
     anything.
     17
      The prosecutor's statements during closing focused on the
time period following Rodriguez's identification as a suspect, but
before he had been arrested or read his rights under Miranda.

                                  -29-
after defense counsel's objection and while at side-bar, the

prosecutor stated that he would tell the jury that Rodriguez had a

constitutional right to remain silent and that Rodriguez had no

obligation to come forward to police.18

          Moving along to the second prong, though in general

prejudicial statements made during closing argument "militate in

favor of reversal," here a strong curative instruction was given

immediately after the objection.   Azubike, 504 F.3d at 39 (quoting

United States v. Manning, 23 F.3d 570, 575 (1st Cir. 1994))

(internal quotation marks omitted).       "This court has repeatedly

held that a strong, explicit and thorough curative instruction to

disregard improper comments by the prosecutor is sufficient to cure

any prejudice from prosecutorial misconduct."       United States v.

Riccio, 529 F.3d 40, 45 (1st Cir. 2008).    Moreover, "[i]t is a well



Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U.S. 436, 467-68 (1966). We note that the
law concerning a prosecutor's use of a defendant's pre-arrest, pre-
Miranda silence is, to say the least, unsettled. See United States
v. McCann, 366 F.3d 46, 56-57 (1st Cir. 2004), vacated and remanded
on other grounds, 543 U.S. 1104 (2005), (stating that the issue of
a prosecutor's use of a defendant’s pre-arrest, pre-Miranda silence
has not been definitely resolved by this court); compare United
States v. Burson, 952 F.2d 1196, 1201 (10th Cir. 1991) (finding
plain error where court allowed admission of IRS agent's testimony
regarding   the defendant's     silence during    a   non-custodial
interrogation), with United States v. Rivera, 944 F.2d 1563, 1568
(11th Cir. 1991)("The government may comment on a defendant's
silence if it occurred prior to the time he was arrested and given
his Miranda warnings.").
     18
      The prosecutor never did make such a statement to the jury.
Immediately following the side-bar, the court gave a curative
instruction and the prosecutor moved on with his argument.

                               -30-
established tenet of our judicial system that juries are presumed

to follow such instructions."          Gentles, 619 F.3d at 82; see also

United States v. Salley, 651 F.3d 159, 167 (1st Cir. 2011) ("We

assume the jury to have followed [the court's] instructions.").

             Here, the district court stated:

             I am striking the line of argument that was
             just made.   I want to remind you that, and
             I'll be talking about it again, but a
             defendant has a Fifth Amendment right here.
             We talked about that on the first day of
             trial.     A defendant has no obligation
             whatsoever to say anything at all, and it is
             improper to consider that at all in the jury
             deliberation room.   And so whatever he did
             that night, he had no obligation to say
             anything or do anything.

Rodriguez failed to object to the instruction given. Additionally,

during the court's closing charge to the jury, it informed the jury

that the defendant had an "absolute right not to testify," that the

jury   was    not   to   draw   "any    inference   whatsoever"   from   the

defendant's silence, and that "closing arguments made by the

lawyers [were] not evidence."           We think these instructions were

enough to "properly account[] for possible prejudice and [that] no

reversible error was committed."          United States v. Hodge-Balwing,

952 F.2d 607, 611 (1st Cir. 1991); see also Azubike, 504 F.3d at 42

(noting, in vacating and remanding, that "this would have been

quite a different case if the district court had corrected the

error in the prosecutor’s statement").




                                       -31-
            Finally, applying prong three, we think the evidence

presented at trial was strong enough to establish that any ill

effects which survived the curative instruction did not affect the

outcome of the case.        To begin, Sweeney and Garofalo corroborated

each   other's    testimony,       establishing   that    the   defendant   had

possession of the car on the night it was found.                Additionally,

Sweeney's testimony indicated that the defendant had possession of

the AK-47 the day before it was found in the car.           These two pieces

of evidence, coupled with the evidence of the marijuana and drug

paraphernalia in the car, and the testimony that Rodriguez had

taken the car to go sell drugs, was sufficient evidence for a jury

to find that the defendant was in possession of the AK-47 despite

the prosecutor's statements during closing arguments.              When all is

said and done, "[c]onsidering the evidence in this case, the terse

character of the remarks and the thorough curative [and general]

instructions given by the court, it is unlikely that the remarks

altered the result of the trial." Riccio, 529 F.3d at 46 (internal

quotation    marks    and    citation     omitted).       Consequently,     the

prosecutor's statements, while arguably improper, did not so poison

the well as to require a new trial.           Azubike, 504 F.3d at 39.

  2.   Rebuttal

    a. Standard of Review

            We    review    only    for   plain   error   any   part   of   the

government's rebuttal argument which the defendant failed to object


                                      -32-
to.    United States v. Kinsella, 622 F.3d 75, 83.        Under this

exacting standard the defendant must show that there was an error,

which was obvious, and which affected the outcome of the case. Id.

"Even if    a defendant can show all of this, we have discretion not

to intervene if we conclude that the error does not distort the

fairness or integrity of the lower court proceedings in some

extreme way."   Id.   The "result is that plain error review tends to

afford relief . . . only for 'blockbuster' errors."       Moran, 393

F.3d at 13 (quoting United States v. Griffin, 818 F.2d 97, 100 (1st

Cir. 1987)).

      b. Discussion

            In order to address properly whether the prosecutor's

statements were in error and affected the outcome of the case we

think it is necessary to put them in context. During closing

argument, while contesting the truthfulness and trustworthiness of

the prosecution's witnesses, the defendant's trial counsel stated:

            So ask yourselves this: Would you trust either
            of them to take care of your kids? Would you
            trust either of them to back you up in an
            important task at work?      Would you trust
            either of them to even, like, tell you what
            your boss had instructed that you should be
            doing?   I think it's probably likely, isn't
            it, that you probably wouldn't even trust
            these people to walk your dog?

This statement was made at the very end of the defendant's closing

argument.    Immediately after, the prosecutor made the following

remarks during his rebuttal:


                                 -33-
           [L]et me begin by posing a rhetorical question
           that follows on what [defense counsel] just
           asked of you.    Would you trust me to watch
           your kids? You don't know me from Adam. I may
           look like a respectable person, but that
           doesn't mean you're all of a sudden going to
           welcome me into your household and entrust me
           with things that are important to you.

           The defendant argues that the prosecutor's statements

improperly vouched for the credibility of the government's case and

its    witnesses        by     injecting        the     prosecutor's      personal

trustworthiness into the "witness credibility equation." According

to Rodriguez, "[t]he thrust of the prosecutor's argument was that

the jurors could trust [the prosecutor] for purposes of the trial

even   though    they   may     not   trust     him   with   their   children   and

therefore,      the   jurors     could    trust       the    testimony   of   [the]

government's witnesses, even though the jurors may not trust the

witnesses in personal matters."               Furthermore, Rodriguez contends

that the vouching was more pronounced and prejudicial because the

statements occurred during rebuttal.              We disagree.

           "Improper vouching occurs when the government 'place[s]

the prestige of the United States behind a witness by making

personal assurances about the credibility'" of its witnesses or

implies that its evidence should be trusted because the government

is trustworthy.       United States v. Robinson, 473 F.3d 387, 396 (1st

Cir. 2007) (quoting United States v. Rosario-Diaz, 202 F.3d 54, 65

(1st Cir. 2000)).            We have acknowledged that the problem with

improper vouching is that by placing the credibility of counsel at

                                         -34-
issue, the government is given an unfair advantage.                   Joyner, 191

F.3d at 55; United States v. Cresta, 825 F.2d 538, 555 (1st Cir.

1987).    We have held that improper statements during rebuttal

increase the likelihood of prejudice.                Ayala-Garcia, 574 F.3d at

20. However, that is not the situation here.

            In this case, the prosecutor's statement did not put his

personal credibility at issue.           Instead, the prosecutor merely

posed a rhetorical question that mirrored, and directly responded

to, the     defendant's    closing    argument.          See United       States   v.

Skerret-Ortega, 529 F.3d 33, 40 (1st Cir. 2008) ("The Government's

response to statements made by defendant's counsel cannot and

should not be viewed the same way as statements made by the

Government    without     provocation.       .   .   .   [W]e   'typically     cede

prosecutors some latitude in responding to defense counsel . . .

.'" (quoting United States v. Hansen, 434 F.3d 92, 102 (1st Cir.

2006), cert. denied, 549 U.S. 894 (2006)) (internal quotation marks

removed)). Our review of the record suggests that the prosecutor's

intention    was   to   demonstrate    the       difference     between    trusting

someone to watch your children and finding them credible.                          It

appears the prosecutor, using himself only as an exemplar, was

attempting to illustrate his point by suggesting that whether the

jurors trusted a person had nothing to do with that person's

credibility and everything to do with how well the jurors knew the




                                      -35-
person.19      Contrary to Rodriguez's claim, the prosecutor did not

imply that the government's witnesses were trustworthy because he

himself was trustworthy or because they were witnesses for the

United States.      There was no improper vouching.

              Before     leaving   this    matter      we   note    that       while   the

defendant objected to the prosecutor's statements during closing

argument, he failed to object to the prosecutor's statements during

rebuttal.      This suggests that even the defendant "failed to regard

the comments as having a damaging effect."                    Gentles, 619 F.3d at

84; see United States v. Procopio, 88 F.3d 21, 31 (1st Cir. 1996)

("The fact that the defense did not object also may suggest that,

in the conditions of the courtroom, the passage in question passed

by as mere rhetoric.").

              Furthermore, when a defendant fails to object at trial we

are not       inclined    to find   improper          meaning in      a   prosecutor's

statement if there is a plausible alternative.                     See United States

v. Sepulveda, 15 F.3d 1161, 1187 (1st Cir. 1993) ("[I]n the absence

of   a     contemporaneous     objection         it   seems    fair       to   give    the

[prosecutor] the benefit of every plausible interpretation of [his]

words."); United States v. Taylor, 54 F.3d 967, 979 (1st Cir. 1995)

(stating that when a prosecutor's comments are susceptible to more

than one meaning, context often determines meaning and that a

reviewing court should construe ambiguity in favor of the meaning


      19
           A practice which we discourage.

                                          -36-
which is "unexceptionable"); see also Donnelly v. DeChristoforo,

416 U.S. 637, 647 (1974) ("[A] court should not lightly infer that

a prosecutor intends an ambiguous remark to have its most damaging

meaning or that a jury, sitting through lengthy exhortation, will

draw        that    meaning    from      the    plethora    of   less    damaging

interpretations.").           Here, the plausible alternative is that the

prosecutor         simply   meant   to   illustrate   the   difference   between

trusting someone and finding them credible. While it may have been

wiser for the prosecutor to leave any reference to himself out of

the case entirely, his statements were not improper vouching, but

instead an attempt to demonstrate a flaw in the defendant's logic.

Consequently, there was no "blockbuster" error that would warrant

reversal.20

III. Conclusion

               For all of the aforementioned reasons, we affirm.




       20
      Rodriguez makes one final argument. He alleges that even if
all the errors he points to are not sufficient on their own for
reversal, combined, they amount to cumulative prejudicial error.
We disagree. Because none of Rodriguez's claimed errors resulted
in any substantial prejudice there was no cumulative error. See
United States v. Sampson, 486 F.3d 13, 51 (1st Cir. 2007) (holding
that where none of the district court's "individual rulings worked
any cognizable harm" to the defendant's rights, cumulative error
argument was meritless); see also United States v. DeMasi, 40 F.3d
1306, 1322 (1st Cir. 1994) ("Because we have found that none of
[the defendant's] individual complaints resulted in substantial
prejudice and that most are completely without merit, we reject the
final contention that his conviction was tainted by cumulative
error.").

                                         -37-
