        United States Court of Appeals
             for the Fifth Circuit                                 United States Court of Appeals
                                                                            Fifth Circuit
                             ____________                                 FILED
                                                                      July 23, 2025
                              No. 24-60032
                                                                     Lyle W. Cayce
                             ____________                                 Clerk

Shenzhen IVPS Technology Company, Limited;
ECIGRUSA, L.L.C., doing business as Worldwide Vape
Distribution,

                                                                 Petitioners,

                                   versus

Food & Drug Administration,

                                                                 Respondent.
               ______________________________

        Petition for Review from the Food & Drug Administration
                       Agency No. PM0001254.PD6
               ______________________________

Before Wiener, Stewart, and Southwick, Circuit Judges.
Leslie H. Southwick, Circuit Judge:
       Petitioner Shenzhen IVPS Technology Company, Ltd. submitted
applications for its electronic nicotine delivery systems, which the Food and
Drug Administration denied. It and a retailer seek to have the denial order
set aside as being arbitrary and capricious and then to have FDA ordered to
reconsider. We DENY the petition.
                                 No. 24-60032


        FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
  I.   Administrative Background
       Under the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act of
2009 (“TCA”), the Food and Drug Administration regulates “cigarettes,
cigarette tobacco, roll-your-own tobacco, and smokeless tobacco and . . . any
other tobacco products that the Secretary by regulation deems to be subject
to” the TCA. 21 U.S.C. § 387a(b). In 2016, FDA issued a final rule
extending its regulatory authority to all electronic nicotine delivery systems
(“ENDS”). Deeming Tobacco Products to be Subject to the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (“Deeming Rule”), 81 Fed. Reg. 28,974, 29,028
(May 10, 2016) (codified at 21 C.F.R. pts. 1100, 1140, 1143) (“In this final
rule, FDA clarifies that although there are many types of ENDS (including
e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-hookah, vape pens, personal vaporizers, and
electronic pipes), all are subject to FDA’s chapter IX authorities with this
final deeming rule.”). ENDS devices use electricity to heat an e-liquid,
which can contain nicotine, flavorings, and other ingredients. The e-liquids
are converted into an aerosol and inhaled in a process called vaping. There
are two types of ENDS devices: open-system ENDS and closed-system
ENDS.      Closed-system ENDS devices utilize pre-filled, replaceable
cartridges or pods to provide the e-liquid. Open-system ENDS devices
allow for the user to fill the device themselves with e-liquid. The e-liquid for
these devices comes in two forms: freebase nicotine and nicotine salt
formulations. This petition only concerns open-system ENDS devices; e-
liquid is sold separately from the devices.
       Tobacco products that were not on the market as of February 15,
2007, must obtain marketing authorization from FDA. § 387j(a)(1)(A)–
(a)(2)(A). FDA provides three pathways to obtain marketing authorization:
(1) a premarket tobacco product application (“PMTA”); (2) a substantial




                                       2
                                       No. 24-60032


equivalence report (only available if the applicant can show the tobacco
product “is substantially equivalent” to one on the market as of February 15,
2007);     and       (3)   a   substantial       equivalence   exemption    report.
§§ 387j(a)(2)(A)–(B), 387e(j).
         There are statutory requirements for PMTA applications. Relevant
here are these provisions:
         (2) The Secretary shall deny an application submitted under
         subsection (b) if, upon the basis of the information submitted
         to the Secretary as part of the application and any other
         information before the Secretary with respect to such tobacco
         product, the Secretary finds that —
                 (A) there is a lack of a showing that permitting such
                 tobacco product to be marketed would be appropriate
                 for the protection of the public health.
§ 387j(c)(2)(A). In determining whether the product is appropriate for the
protection of the public health, FDA must consider “the risks and benefits
to the population as a whole, including users and nonusers of the tobacco
product.” § 387j(c)(4). FDA must account for:
         (A) the increased or decreased likelihood that existing users of
         tobacco products will stop using such products; and
         (B) the increased or decreased likelihood that those who do not
         use tobacco products will start using such products.
§ 387j(c)(4)(A)–(B). Extensive reports and data must be in the application.
§ 387j(b)(1).
         In addition to the statutory guidance, FDA issued a draft guidance
document        in    2016,    which     provided     ENDS-specific    application
recommendations. The agency finalized the guidance recommendations in
June 2019. U.S. Food & Drug Admin., Premarket Tobacco
Product Applications for Electronic Nicotine Delivery




                                             3
                                    No. 24-60032


Systems (Revised): Guidance for Industry (“PMTA
Guidance”) (Mar. 2023).1 The guidance document contained nonbinding
recommendations detailing the studies and data that should be included in
applications and had a section specifically addressing open-system ENDS
devices. Id. at 19–45. FDA proposed a rule for PMTAs in September 2019.
See Premarket Tobacco Product Applications and Recordkeeping
Requirements, 84 Fed. Reg. 50,566 (proposed Sept. 25, 2019) (codified at 21
C.F.R. pts. 1100, 1107, 1114). The rule became final in October 2021. See
Premarket Tobacco Product Applications and Recordkeeping Requirements,
86 Fed. Reg. 55,300, 55,399 (Oct. 5, 2021) (codified at 21 C.F.R. pts. 1100,
1107, 1114).
       Many ENDS products were already on the market when FDA issued
the final rule putting ENDS under its authority. Those products entered the
market after February 15, 2007, but did not have premarket authorization.
They therefore were “adulterated” under the Act. § 387b(6)(A). FDA
announced it would permit products introduced on the market between
February 15, 2007, and August 8, 2016, to remain on the market if the
manufacturer filed a PMTA by August 8, 2018. Deeming Rule, 81 Fed. Reg.
at 29,011. For manufacturers who submitted a PMTA by the deadline, FDA
stated it would not bring enforcement action for the products until August 8,
2019, unless FDA denied the manufacturer’s application before that date.
Id. FDA later attempted to delay the application deadline further, but a
federal district court ordered the PMTAs be submitted within 10 months of
its order. American Acad. of Pediatrics v. FDA, 399 F. Supp. 3d 479, 487 (D.
Md. 2019). The deadline was later extended until September 9, 2020, due to

       _____________________
       1
         Though the guidance document was revised in March 2023, the parties agree that
the relevant portions remained unchanged from the June 2019 version. The guidance can
be found at https://perma.cc/B29W-TFCD.




                                          4
                                  No. 24-60032


COVID-19. American Academy of Pediatrics v. FDA, No. 18–CV–883 (D.
Md. Apr. 22, 2020), ECF No. 182.
 II.   Procedural History
       In July and September 2020, Shenzhen IVPS Technology Co., Ltd.
(“IVPS”) applied for premarket authorization for six open-system ENDS
devices and components, including replacement pods, or cartridges, and
atomizers. IVPS’s devices are designed to “allow each user to customize
his or her own vaping ‘experience.’” Users can do so by “vary[ing] the
voltage output from the battery,” which “affect[s] the volume and content
of the nicotine-containing aerosol generated and intended to be inhaled.”
Users can also customize their experience by purchasing their preferred e-
liquid to use with the device.
       In   the   applications,      IVPS   included   “extensive   product
characterization information,” “results from in vitro toxicology studies,”
“extensive ‘extractables’ and ‘leachables’ studies to determine whether the
device components in contact with the e-liquid or aerosol could cause
contamination,” “extensive scientific literature reviews and results from
multiple clinical studies involving human subjects,” and “extensive human
health risks assessments that favorably compared the subject products’
health risks to those of combustible cigarettes.” Ultimately, “IVPS’s
applications concluded that, when compared to the exposure to harmful and
potentially harmful constituents found in combustible cigarettes, IVPS’s
open-system ENDS products presented substantially lower levels of cancer
and non-cancer risks.” IVPS also determined that because “IVPS’s target
market is combustible cigarette smokers, the products were ‘appropriate for
the protection of public health.’”
       After reviewing the applications, FDA sent IVPS a deficiency letter
on March 29, 2023, which stated FDA “preliminarily determined that these




                                       5
                                 No. 24-60032


applications do not in their present form support a positive scientific
determination” and “identifie[d] information that FDA needs to complete
its scientific review.” FDA identified specific deficiencies, but noted “[i]t
should not be understood to communicate a list of all substantive concerns
that may be observed during the review of [the] applications and other
information.” The letter requested the necessary information within 90 days
and alerted IVPS that FDA did not intend to extend the deadline or issue
any additional deficiency letters.
       Three deficiencies are relevant here. [text redacted]. The third
deficiency cited the abuse liability potential of the products. IVPS timely
responded to the deficiency letter. It [text redacted] and suggested a label for
the products to address the abuse liability concerns. FDA reviewed IVPS’s
response and denied the application because IVPS failed to meet its “burden
of ‘showing’ that permitting the marketing of the new products would be
[appropriate for the protection of public health] as required by Section
910(c)(2)(A).” As a result, IVPS cannot legally “introduce or deliver for
introduction these products into interstate commerce in the United States.”
       The denial letter cited three deficiencies, which echoed the three
relevant deficiencies from the March 2023 letter. [text redacted]. The third
deficiency concerns the abuse liability potential for the products. While
FDA acknowledged the labeling suggested by IVPS, FDA stated it was
unable to evaluate whether consumers would understand the label without
consumer comprehension and compliance studies. Following the denial,
IVPS filed this petition for review claiming the denial violates the TCA and
each of the three bases for the denial is arbitrary and capricious.
                             JURISDICTION
       Under 21 U.S.C. § 387l(a)(1)(B) “any person adversely affected by”
the denial of an application filed pursuant to 21 U.S.C. § 387j(c) may petition




                                       6
                                 No. 24-60032


for review in the D.C. Circuit or “the circuit in which such person resides or
has their principal place of business.” The Supreme Court recently affirmed
that “any person adversely affected by” includes those who would otherwise
sell the products. FDA v. R.J. Reynolds Vapor Co., 145 S. Ct. 1984, 1993
(2025).
       Although IVPS is headquartered in Shenzhen, China, with no offices,
facilities, or employees located within the Fifth Circuit, the company has
joined forces in this petition with Worldwide Vape Distribution, which is a
distributor with its principal place of business in Texas. Because one of the
Petitioners has its principal place of business within the Fifth Circuit, venue
is proper under Section 387l(a)(1)(B). See R.J. Reynolds Vapor Co. v. FDA,
65 F.4th 182, 188 (5th Cir. 2023), aff’d, 145 S. Ct. 1984 (2025).
                              DISCUSSION
       IVPS contends “FDA’s denial order is arbitrary, capricious, and
violates the Tobacco Control Act’s requirement that FDA engage in a
holistic risk-benefit analysis before issuing a marketing denial order.” IVPS
contends FDA neglected to weigh the potential public health benefits of its
products against the potential risks. Additionally, IVPS argues the stated
reasons for denial are each arbitrary and capricious because FDA did not
consider important aspects of the problem, treated IVPS less favorably than
similarly situated applicants, and imposed tobacco product standards without
duly promulgating those standards.
       Under the Administrative Procedure Act, “[t]he reviewing court shall
. . . hold unlawful and set aside agency action, findings, and conclusions found
to be . . . arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in
accordance with law.” 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A).
       “The APA’s arbitrary-and-capricious standard requires that agency
action be reasonable and reasonably explained.” FCC v. Prometheus Radio




                                       7
                                  No. 24-60032


Project, 592 U.S. 414, 423 (2021).          This “standard ensures that an
administrative agency ‘examined the relevant data and articulated a
satisfactory explanation for its action including a rational connection between
the facts found and the choice made.’” FDA v. Wages & White Lion Invs.,
L.L.C., 145 S. Ct. 898, 917 (2025) (alterations adopted) (quoting Motor
Vehicle Mfrs. Ass’n of U. S., Inc. v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co., 463 U.S.
29, 43 (1983)). Under this narrow scope of review, “courts must exercise
appropriate deference to agency decisionmaking and not substitute their own
judgment for that of the agency.” Id.
       FDA denied IVPS’s application for three reasons. Because each
reason is independently sufficient for a marketing denial order on new
products, we will only grant IVPS’s petition if all three reasons are arbitrary
and capricious. See BNSF Ry. Co. v. Fed. R.R. Admin., 105 F.4th 691, 695
(5th Cir. 2024). Therefore, we will discuss only the third reason for the
denial, insufficient information on abuse liability. “Abuse liability refers to
the ability of the product to promote continued use and the development of
addiction and dependence.”
I.   Weighing the Risk and Benefits
       IVPS argues FDA failed to weigh the risks and benefits of its
products as required by the TCA. IVPS cites a D.C. Circuit case to support
its argument. See Fontem US, LLC v. FDA, 82 F.4th 1207 (D.C. Cir 2023).
In Fontem, the D.C. Circuit considered a similar ENDS device marketing
authorization denial. It vacated FDA’s marketing denial of the petitioner’s
unflavored products because “FDA acted unlawfully by failing to engage in
the holistic public health analysis required by the statute.” Id. at 1211. There,
FDA issued one deficiency letter, Fontem responded, and then the agency
denied the applications “entirely on the finding that Fontem had not
sufficiently demonstrated that permitting its products to be marketed would




                                        8
                                 No. 24-60032


be ‘appropriate for the protection of the public health.’” Id. at 1213 (quoting
21 U.S.C. §387j(c)(2)). Although FDA identified specific deficiencies, it did
not “explain how the specific deficiencies relate to its overall conclusion that
Fontem failed to demonstrate its unflavored products were appropriate for
the protection of public health.” Id. at 1217. The court noted that in the
absence of promulgated regulations with specific requirements and
standards, FDA was required “to analyze the tradeoffs necessary to make a
public health finding.” Id. Because FDA “chose[] to proceed application
by application under the public health ground, it [had to] undertake the
holistic inquiry required by the statute.” Id. at 1218. IVPS contends Fontem
should guide our analysis because here, as in Fontem, FDA denied the
application without conducting “the holistic inquiry required by the
statute.” Id.
       FDA distinguishes Fontem. Here, FDA explained how the
deficiencies were related to the protection of the public health. After
analyzing the data provided by IVPS and identifying the data it lacked, FDA
stated “there is a reasonable basis to conclude that the risks associated with
the new products may outweigh purported benefits,” especially in terms of
the abuse liability potential. Thus, FDA argues, “this is not a case where
FDA denied applications based on technical deficiencies that might not have
mattered to the ultimate decision.” According to FDA, it “amply explained
the importance of determining a product’s abuse liability and the relevance
of that information to the statutory public-health inquiry.”
       In Fontem, the D.C. Circuit stated FDA “must deny an application to
market a new tobacco product if it makes” a finding that “‘there is a lack of
a showing’ that marketing the product is ‘appropriate for the protection of
the public health.’” Id. at 1212 (emphasis added) (quoting 21 U.S.C.
§ 387j(c)(2)). The court acknowledged that “[w]hile public health standing
alone may be a capacious concept, the Act specifies the basis for such a



                                       9
                                No. 24-60032


finding.” Id. at 1215. As we have already mentioned, the TCA requires
FDA to account for both the “likelihood that existing users of tobacco
products will stop using such products” and the “likelihood that those who
do not use tobacco products will start using such products.” § 387j(c)(4).
       FDA denied IVPS’s PMTA because it “lack[ed] sufficient
information regarding abuse liability of the new products (i.e., the
addictiveness, abuse, and misuse potential of the new products and the
exposure to nicotine during product use).” IVPS provided data from a
clinical study showing that abuse liability outcomes between the products
were comparable to combustible cigarettes under prescribed conditions, but
the application did not include comparisons for actual-use conditions.
Evidence showed much higher nicotine concentrations when the products
were used with certain e-liquids under actual-use conditions. Without
comparison data for actual-use conditions, FDA could not tell whether the
abuse liability for the products would be greater than combustible cigarettes.
Instead of providing the comparison data, IVPS elected to add a warning to
the products to discourage use of the products with the e-liquids that
seemingly increased the abuse liability potential. That said, IVPS did not
provide any comprehension studies to show consumers would understand
and comply with the warning.         Without the abuse liability data or
comprehension studies indicating the data was unnecessary, FDA stated it
was unable to find the products appropriate for the public health.
       In the denial letter, FDA explained why the data was necessary for its
evaluation:
       [U]se of the new products with [certain] e-liquids . . . may
       contribute to a higher abuse liability and subsequent increased
       nicotine dependence compared to combusted cigarettes under
       actual use conditions. A new product with higher abuse
       liability compared to combusted cigarettes could promote




                                     10
                                 No. 24-60032


       craving of the new product and compulsive and continued use
       of the new product despite harm or risk of harm. A new
       product with higher abuse liability could also increase the
       potential for addiction to the new product, relative to
       combusted cigarettes, in individuals who use tobacco and
       nonusers, including youth. Thus, to understand the abuse
       liability of the new products, FDA must consider whether
       consumers will understand and comply with the instructions
       . . . . This includes both current users of tobacco products and
       nonusers, including youth, who may initiate use of your new
       products. Because abuse liability relates to the relative risks of
       tobacco products, we need to understand the abuse liability of
       these new products to determine whether their public health
       benefits outweigh their risks and, therefore, whether they are
       [appropriate for the protection of public health].
       FDA’s denial of IVPS’s PMTA did not violate the TCA’s mandate
to weigh the risks and benefits of the products to determine whether the
products are appropriate for the protection of the public health.
II.   Single Deficiency Letter
       IVPS also argues that when considering the risks and benefits of the
product, it was arbitrary and capricious to base the denial in part on the lack
of label comprehension data for the product’s proposed label. IVPS asserts
that it offered the label in response to FDA’s abuse liability data concerns.
Therefore, if FDA had concerns about the label, FDA should have provided
IVPS with the opportunity to undertake an iterative review process.
       IVPS argues that FDA historically engaged in such an iterative
review process involving multiple rounds of letters and responses, so FDA’s
change in position to issuing only a single deficiency letter with a 90-day
response deadline was arbitrary and capricious. There are two components
to this argument: (1) whether the agency impermissibly changed its position;




                                       11
                                No. 24-60032


and (2) whether the agency failed to treat like cases alike. We consider each
argument in turn.
       A. Change-in-Position Doctrine
       FDA initially justifies its decision to issue only a single deficiency
letter by emphasizing that the TCA does not require FDA to issue any
deficiency letters at all. IVPS counters that “[e]ven absent a statutory
command, FDA’s longstanding practice was thus sufficient to create a
reliance interest on the part of IVPS when it submitted its application that
FDA would not depart from its past practice.”
       Nevertheless, a long-standing practice does not mandate a permanent
practice. It is well established that an agency may change its course so long
as it “suppl[ies] a reasoned analysis indicating that prior policies and
standards are being deliberately changed, not casually ignored.” Greater
Boston Television Corp. v. FCC, 444 F.2d 841, 852 (D.C. Cir. 1970). The
Supreme Court recently provided clarification on this change-in-position
doctrine. See Wages & White Lion, 145 S. Ct. at 918–19. A change-in-position
analysis must ask two questions: (1) did the agency change its policy; and, if
so, (2) “[d]id the agency ‘display awareness that it is changing position’ and
offer ‘good reasons for the new policy’?” Id. at 918 (quoting FCC v. Fox
Television Stations, Inc., 556 U.S. 502, 515 (2009)).      We consider the
questions in that order.
       First, did the agency change its policy? “[T]his occurs when an
agency acts ‘inconsistently’ with an ‘earlier position,’ performs ‘a reversal
of its former views as to the proper course,’ or ‘disavows’ prior
‘inconsistent’ agency action as ‘no longer good law.’” Id. (alterations
adopted and citations omitted) (first quoting Encino Motorcars LLC v.
Navarro, 579 U.S. 211, 224 (2016); then quoting State Farm, 463 U.S. at 41;
and then quoting Fox Television Stations, 556 U.S. at 517). Here, FDA




                                      12
                                No. 24-60032


announced it would only issue a single deficiency letter, which was
inconsistent with its prior practice. U.S. Food and Drug Admin.,
Deemed Product Review: A Conversation with the
Center for Tobacco Products Office of Science 24
(“Deemed          Product          Review”)           (June    11,     2021),
https://perma.cc/6PD3-FLXG. Therefore, FDA changed its policy.
       Second, did the agency acknowledge the change in position and offer
good reasons for the change? The agency need not “show ‘that the reasons
for the new policy are better than the reasons for the old one’” or “provide a
more detailed justification than what would suffice for a new policy created
on a blank slate.” Wages & White Lion, 145 S. Ct. at 918 (quoting Fox
Television Stations, 556 U.S. at 515). “But the agency must ‘be cognizant that
longstanding policies may have engendered serious reliance interests that
must be taken into account.’” Id. (quoting Encino Motorcars, 579 U.S. at 221–
22). Here, FDA expressly stated it would generally limit the application
review to one deficiency letter and explained the reason was to streamline the
processing of the many applications it received around the September 2020
ENDS PMTA deadline. Deemed Product Review at 24. Although
FDA announced the change nearly a year after IVPS submitted its
applications, the announcement came nearly two years before IVPS received
its deficiency letter. IVPS could not have been surprised when FDA
adhered to the new single-deficiency-letter policy.
       Further, IVPS was aware of the recommendation that applicants
“include studies demonstrating that users and nonusers understand the
product’s labeling and instructions for use,” which was part of FDA’s 2019
guidance for PMTAs. PMTA Guidance at 43. The proposed rule
likewise suggested data on “the ability of individuals to understand the
labeling and instructions for use and use the product in accordance with those
instructions.” Premarket Tobacco Product Applications and Recordkeeping



                                      13
                                 No. 24-60032


Requirements, 84 Fed. Reg. at 50,606. IVPS acknowledged the proposed
requirement of label comprehension studies, even quoting portions of the
guidance and proposed rule in its application. IVPS conducted the studies
for other portions of its original application. IVPS’s failure to include the
studies in its response to the deficiency letter does not require FDA to give
IVPS additional opportunities.
       IVPS asserts it was impossible for IVPS to conduct the necessary
studies within the 90-day deadline to respond to the deficiency letter. IVPS
contends it likely needed nine months to conduct the study and provide the
results to FDA. Nevertheless, IVPS never requested an extension to
respond to the deficiency letter. True, the deficiency letter stated “[i]n
general, to maximize review efficiency of applications, we do not intend to
provide an extension of time for response to deficiency letters.” That does
not necessarily mean FDA would not grant an extension if it were necessary.
In the same meeting where FDA announced the single deficiency letter
policy, it advised applicants who could not respond within 90 days to “still
respond with what they have and then also give us a detailed plan with a
timeline for all remaining data.” Deemed Product Review at 32.
IVPS even directs us to an application it claims received an extension. IVPS
cannot now claim to be unaware and prejudiced that FDA adhered to its two-
year-old policy if IVPS never alerted FDA it would need more time to
provide an adequate response under that policy.
       Ultimately, IVPS argues FDA’s announcement was insufficient to
“justify the differential treatment accorded IVPS.” IVPS submitted its
applications nearly a year before the announcement in 2021. IVPS also
laments that FDA “rejected requests for pre-submission meetings” which
left “IVPS to speculate as to certain aspects of the abuse liability studies it
planned to perform and as to exactly what amount of evidence FDA would
require.” Although FDA did not hold pre-submission meetings, it provided



                                      14
                                  No. 24-60032


guidance. FDA did not change that guidance and then deny IVPS’s
application based on the changed guidance. Instead, FDA denied IVPS’s
application for a failure to provide the data that IVPS was aware FDA
considered important in determining whether the products were appropriate
for the public health.
       We hold FDA’s change in position from multiple deficiency letters to
one deficiency letter was not arbitrary and capricious because it was
acknowledged and adequately explained.
       B. Treating Like Cases Alike
       IVPS also argues that FDA issuing only one deficiency letter is
arbitrary and capricious because it failed to treat like cases alike. “It is a
bedrock principle of administrative law that an agency must treat like cases
alike.” University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Ctr. v. HHS, 985 F.3d 472,
479 (5th Cir. 2021) (quotation omitted). “An agency must provide an
adequate explanation to justify treating similarly situated parties differently.”
Burlington N. & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Surface Transp. Bd., 403 F.3d 771, 776
(D.C. Cir. 2005). If the agency fails to do so, “its action is arbitrary and
capricious and cannot be upheld.” Id. at 777.
       According to IVPS, FDA’s practice up to the point of IVPS’s
application was to engage in an iterative review process, and similarly
situated applicants received more than one deficiency letter. FDA argues
the applicants IVPS cites were not similarly situated. One application for a
smokeless tobacco product was filed several years earlier and another was
processed under a completely different authorization path, the substantial-
equivalence path.        In response, IVPS argues there is no meaningful
distinction between PMTA and substantial-equivalence pathways that
justifies the different treatment. According to IVPS, PMTAs are even more
deserving of multiple deficiency letters because substantial-equivalence




                                       15
                                 No. 24-60032


pathway applications are considerably simpler. We conclude FDA has
adequately explained the different treatment between PMTA and
substantial-equivalence pathways applications. Although both pathways are
used to approve new tobacco products, the requirements for each are
different and it is reasonable for FDA to treat the applications differently.
       Additionally, IVPS cites prior PMTA applications, including one for
a smokeless tobacco product in 2015. FDA asserts that PMTAs for e-
cigarettes are fundamentally different because e-cigarette products were
already being marketed due to the sequencing of the TCA and the rule that
deemed e-cigarettes subject to the TCA. FDA argues the presence of these
products on the market before FDA’s approval created exigencies that were
not present in the applications where the applicant received multiple
deficiency letters. IVPS counters that the three-and-a-half-year review
period shows there was no true sense of urgency in FDA’s actions and
undercuts FDA’s assertion that exigencies required the move from multiple
deficiency letters to a single deficiency letter. According to IVPS, FDA
cannot seriously contend it believed it was bound by the Maryland district
court’s timeline, because FDA did not issue the deficiency letter until well
after the court’s mandated deadline. Further, IVPS argues its dependence
on established revenue from ENDS products sales weighed in favor of FDA
issuing more than one deficiency letter and providing IVPS with more time
to conduct the necessary research.
       FDA’s delay in evaluating IVPS’s application is more indicative of
the volume of applications than a lack of urgency. As FDA argues, it is
unique that products regulated by FDA would be on the market without
authorization. IVPS’s ENDS products were already on the market, so
FDA had an incentive to streamline the application process. Moreover, it is
FDA’s statutory duty to ensure only tobacco products that are appropriate
for the protection of the public health are on the market. See § 387j(c)(2)(A).



                                      16
                                  No. 24-60032


FDA has adequately explained the difference in treatment between
applications filed before and after the Deeming Rule.
       In its reply brief, IVPS directs our attention to one applicant who
applied after IVPS’s first application was submitted and received a two-
month extension for a response to the deficiency letter and the opportunity
to provide additional information through a teleconference. “Adequate
briefing requires a party to raise an issue in its opening brief.” Guillot ex rel.
T.A.G. v. Russell, 59 F.4th 743, 751 (5th Cir. 2023). By citing this application
in its reply brief, IVPS did not give FDA the opportunity to differentiate it.
Thus, we will not consider it.
                              CONCLUSION
       We hold FDA’s denial based on the abuse liability deficiency was not
“arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance
with law.” See 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A). Because this deficiency is sufficient to
sustain the denial of the application, we need not consider the other two
independent reasons given for the denial.
       The petition for review is DENIED.




                                        17
