                              In the
    United States Court of Appeals
                 For the Seventh Circuit
                    ____________________

Nos. 25-1346, 25-1347 & 25-1348
OAK LAWN RESPIRATORY AND REHABILITATION CENTER, LLC, et
al.,
                                    Plaintiffs-Appellants,

                                v.

UNITED STATES SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION, et al.,
                                     Defendants-Appellees.
                    ____________________

         Appeals from the United States District Court for the
            Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division.
  Nos. 23 CV 4363, 23 CV 4367 & 24 CV 1490 — Georgia N. Alexakis,
                                Judge.
                    ____________________

    ARGUED DECEMBER 12, 2025 — DECIDED JULY 14, 2026
                ____________________

   Before EASTERBROOK, JACKSON-AKIWUMI, and LEE, Circuit
Judges.
    EASTERBROOK, Circuit Judge. Oak Lawn is one of 203 nurs-
ing homes under common control. Many of them applied for
loans under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Secu-
rity Act (CARES), Pub. L. 116-136, 134 Stat. 281 (2020). The re-
lief program not only entitled some businesses to loans (guar-
anteed by the federal government) under the statute’s
2                                            Nos. 25-1346 et al.
Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) but also authorized the
Small Business Administration (SBA) to forgive some or all of
the principal amounts, turning loans into grants. We refer
throughout to Oak Lawn; two other nursing homes are plain-
tiﬀs but need not be discussed separately. We also omit details
about several statutes that modify the original version of the
CARES Act.
    The aggregate demand for paycheck-protection loans ex-
ceeded the appropriated funds. This led the SBA to adopt
some conservation devices, one of which it calls the Corporate
Group Rule. Versions of the Rule appear in diﬀerent places,
but the one relevant to our case can be found at 85 Fed. Reg.
26,324 (May 4, 2020). The CARES Act sets a limit of $10 million
in guaranteed loans for any one business, and the Rule adds
a $20 million cap for loans to all businesses in a single corpo-
rate group. It contains a straightforward explanation: “limit-
ing the amount of PPP loans that a single corporate group
may receive will promote the availability of PPP loans to the
largest possible number of borrowers”. It deﬁnes as one “cor-
porate group” any aﬃliated businesses that “are majority
owned, directly or indirectly, by a common parent.”
    By the time Oak Lawn sought a loan, other businesses un-
der common control with it had received more than $20 mil-
lion. The bank to which Oak Lawn applied was unaware of
this, however, and disbursed almost $1 million. Collectively,
61 businesses out of these 203 received more than $41 million
in paycheck-protection loans. When in 2021 they sought for-
giveness of these loans, the SBA limited that beneﬁt to $20
million, leaving them in debt to the lending banks for the rest.
The nursing homes complained, but administrative judges
ruled against them. E.g., Forest View Rehabilitation and Nursing
Center, LLC, No. PPP-6431697306 (SBA Oﬃce of Hearings &
Appeals Oct. 16, 2023). This suit followed. The district court
Nos. 25-1346 et al.                                             3
granted summary judgment in the agency’s favor. 2024 U.S.
Dist. LEXIS 234023 (N.D. Ill. Dec. 30, 2024).
    The CARES Act routes paycheck-protection loans through
§7(a) of an older statute, codiﬁed at 15 U.S.C. §636(a). This sets
up Oak Lawn’s principal argument: that the Corporate Group
Rule is invalid because §7(a) applies “to any qualiﬁed small
business concern”. Each of the 203 nursing homes is a limited
liability company and therefore must be treated separately,
the argument runs. What’s more, §636(a)(36)(D) says that
“any” qualiﬁed small business “shall” be eligible for guaran-
tees if statutory conditions have been met.
    Yet the Corporate Group Rule does not declare any LLC
or corporation to be ineligible for a loan guarantee. The ques-
tion at hand is how much of a loan the federal government
will guarantee, not whether any given ﬁrm is eligible for ben-
eﬁts. Section 7(a) does not require the agency to issue guaran-
tees for any particular loans or potential borrowers. It em-
powers the agency to do certain things, with speciﬁed re-
strictions, but does not ensure that every applicant receives a
guarantee. Likewise the CARES Act says that the agency
“may” guarantee loans up to speciﬁed amounts, 15 U.S.C.
§636(a)(36)(B), not that it must guarantee the maximum law-
ful amount for every applicant.
    Congress gave the agency emergency rulemaking author-
ity to be used during 2020. 15 U.S.C. §9012. This statute pro-
vides the foundation for the Corporate Group Rule. As Oak
Lawn observes, the language of §7(a) does not authorize the
agency to set aggregate limits. Granted. But neither does §7(a)
forbid it. Oak Lawn thinks that the CARES Act set up a race,
so that whichever small businesses applied ﬁrst had to receive
the maximum possible guarantees, while businesses that ap-
plied a few days later—after appropriations had been ex-
4                                            Nos. 25-1346 et al.
hausted—would get nothing. It is not possible to see that leg-
islative choice in the statute.
    Section 7(a) in conjunction with the rulemaking power
gives the SBA a good deal of administrative discretion. One
way in which the agency used that discretion is to read “busi-
ness concern” at the level of management or investment aﬃl-
iation, a subject that had been addressed by regulation even
before the pandemic. 13 C.F.R. §121.301(f). Neither §7(a) nor
anything else in the statute deﬁnes a “business concern.” Oak
Lawn assumes that anything separately organized under
state law must be an independent business concern. That’s
possible, but it is not something that the statutory language
speciﬁes.
    Many federal agencies treat aﬃliated businesses as if they
were one for regulatory purposes. See, e.g., Esmark, Inc. v.
NLRB, 887 F.2d 739, 755–57 (7th Cir. 1989) (labor law); McCles-
key v. CWG Plastering, LLC, 897 F.3d 899, 901–03 (7th Cir. 2018)
(pension law); Teed v. Thomas & Betts Power Solutions, L.L.C.,
711 F.3d 763 (7th Cir. 2013) (Fair Labor Standards Act). Doubt-
less statutory language could require federal agencies to look
exclusively to state law to identify a business concern—and in
the absence of a regulation reliance on common law is the
norm, see United States v. Bestfoods, 524 U.S. 51 (1998). But we
have not found any generally applicable statute or decision
saying that federal agencies are forbidden to adopt regulations
that apply lending limits (or similar constraints) to corporate
groups as a whole.
    Consider an example that is familiar to lawyers. Many
large law ﬁrms are partnerships of legal-service corporations.
Each lawyer incorporates separately, and then the corpora-
tions form a partnership. This may have tax and insurance
beneﬁts. But we hope that no one would think that every part-
Nos. 25-1346 et al.                                         5
ner at Kirkland & Ellis (the world’s largest law ﬁrm) could
separately receive $10 million in loan forgiveness under the
Paycheck Protection Program just because each individual
lawyer’s payroll is less than the limit established for each
business by the CARES Act. It hardly seems a stretch to say
that what is true for separately incorporated partners at a
global law ﬁrm (whose income, payroll, and assets far exceed
the maximum for a “small business”) is true for separately or-
ganized nursing homes as well.
    According to Oak Lawn, the SBA’s Rule is arbitrary and
capricious even if we deem it compatible with §7(a). Yet the
agency gave a cogent reason: ensuring that the limited re-
sources available to the program would go around. Oak Lawn
does not contend that this is wrong and that the contested
Rule led to unused funds being returned to the Treasury. The
SBA asserts that by 2021 it had guaranteed almost 12 million
paycheck-protection loans aggregating almost $800 billion;
Oak Lawn does not deny this. No more need be said about
this line of attack.
    One can imagine problems arising if diﬀerent investors
hold diﬀerent fractional interests. Imagine three business, A,
B, and C, owned by investors X, Y, and Z. X owns two-thirds
of A, and Y owns the rest; Y owns two-thirds of B, and Z owns
the rest. Z owns two-thirds of C, and X owns the rest. Each of
the three investors owns interests in only two of the three
ﬁrms, and no combination of investors owns a majority inter-
est in all ﬁrms. The three ﬁrms may be thought of as fraternal
rather than under common ownership. Should they be treated
as a single corporate group—and, if they are, how would the
$20 million cap be allocated among them? The agency’s regu-
lation does not address that subject. But the omission is not
surprising; the SBA and many other agencies scrambled to
make policy in the early months of the COVID pandemic, and
6                                             Nos. 25-1346 et al.
they were entitled to resolve the most pressing questions ﬁrst.
The treatment of fractional ownership did not arise in spring
2020, and for all we can tell has not been a serious problem
since then. Agencies need not resolve every possible problem
on the way to addressing the most pressing problems, so this
omission does not make the Corporate Group Rule arbitrary
or irrational.
    Oak Lawn oﬀers two arguments about its particular situ-
ation: that it is not part of a corporate group and that the Pol-
icy has been applied to its loan retroactively. An administra-
tive judge rejected both contentions, and substantial evidence
supports that decision.
    The agency, with the administrative judge’s approval,
concluded that Gubin Enterprises (100% owned by Moishe
Gubin) and Michael Blisko formed a partnership that operates
the 203 nursing homes. This partnership has an investment
interest exceeding 55% in all 203 nursing homes and controls
more than 50% of the voting membership interests of each
limited liability company. Under the Corporate Group Rule,
this makes the 203 nursing homes part of a single corporate
group, because the Gubin-Blisko partnership can direct the
conduct of every nursing home. (It is thus unlike our A, B, C
example in which each business had a diﬀerent majority con-
troller.)
    Oak Lawn insists that a corporate parent (or other control-
ler) must be a single entity, such as a corporation or LLC, but
does not explain why. Partnerships are entities under both
statutes and the common law. To return to our example of
Kirkland & Ellis: if that partnership contracts for space in an
oﬃce building, it cannot escape its obligation by insisting that
only natural persons or corporations can be liable. Likewise if
Kirkland & Ellis bought majority interests in 203 Starbucks
Nos. 25-1346 et al.                                          7
franchises; the coﬀee shops could not obtain separate federal
guarantees as if they were all small, independently owned
businesses.
    As for retroactivity: The administrative judge concluded
that the loan to Oak Lawn was disbursed on May 18, 2020,
several weeks after the group as a whole reached the statutory
cap. Oak Lawn replies that, although its loan was disbursed by
the bank on May 18, it had applied before May 4, the Rule’s
eﬀective date, and been approved by the bank. Yet how does
this make application of the Corporate Group Rule retroac-
tive? Oak Lawn was free to withdraw its application, or de-
cline to draw the funds, once the Rule appeared in the Federal
Register. Indeed, the agency required it to notify the lender,
before a draw, if the draw would put the group over the limit.
85 Fed. Reg. at 26,325.
    That’s not all. We do not see how the Rule can be said to
work retroactively in this case. Repayment always post-dates
a loan. Oak Lawn received almost $1 million and promised
the bank that it would repay this money. The SBA guaranteed
that obligation and has not revoked its assurance. How much
of the loan would be forgiven lay in the future as of May 18,
2020. It’s not as if Oak Lawn has been penalized for any steps
irrevocably taken before May 4; it just hasn’t received all of
the subsidy it hoped for. Nothing in federal law entitles it to
more.
   Appellants’ further arguments do not require discussion.
                                                    AFFIRMED
