USCA11 Case: 24-10263    Document: 51-1      Date Filed: 04/24/2025    Page: 1 of 22




                                                                [PUBLISH]
                                    In the
                 United States Court of Appeals
                         For the Eleventh Circuit

                           ____________________

                                 No. 24-10263
                           ____________________

        BIDI VAPOR LLC,
                                                                Petitioner,
        versus
        U.S. FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION,


                                                               Respondent.


                           ____________________

                    Petition for Review of a Decision of the
                         Food and Drug Administration
                      Agency No. STN-PM0003460.PD2
                           ____________________

        Before ROSENBAUM, NEWSOM, and MARCUS, Circuit Judges.
USCA11 Case: 24-10263      Document: 51-1      Date Filed: 04/24/2025     Page: 2 of 22




        2                      Opinion of the Court                 24-10263

        MARCUS, Circuit Judge:
                In 2020, Petitioner Bidi Vapor LLC (“Bidi Vapor”) filed a pre-
        market tobacco product application (“PMTA”) with the U.S. Food
        and Drug Administration (“FDA”) for the Bidi Stick – Classic (“Bidi
        Classic”), a tobacco-flavored Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems
        (“ENDS”) product. The FDA sent Bidi Vapor a letter listing nu-
        merous deficiencies in its application, after which Bidi Vapor sub-
        mitted supplemental information and data. Ultimately, Bidi Vapor
        did not address all of the issues that the FDA identified, and on Jan-
        uary 22, 2024, the FDA issued a Marketing Denial Order, finding
        that Bidi Vapor had provided insufficient evidence to show that
        permitting the marketing of Bidi Classic would be appropriate for
        the protection of the public health. The FDA based its determina-
        tion on three independent grounds: (1) Bidi Classic’s high abuse
        liability; (2) the incompleteness of Bidi Vapor’s study regarding
        leachable compounds; and (3) the lack of adequate comparison
        data regarding harmful and potentially harmful constituents. The
        Marketing Denial Order prevented Bidi Vapor from introducing
        Bidi Classic into interstate commerce.
               Bidi Vapor now appeals the FDA’s Marketing Denial Order,
        arguing that it should be set aside because the FDA violated the
        Tobacco Control Act and the Administrative Procedure Act or oth-
        erwise proceeded in an arbitrary, capricious, and unlawful manner.
        After careful review, and mindful that we must exercise appropri-
        ate deference to agency decisionmaking and not substitute our
        own judgment for that of the agency, we are satisfied the FDA
USCA11 Case: 24-10263      Document: 51-1      Date Filed: 04/24/2025      Page: 3 of 22




        24-10263               Opinion of the Court                          3

        proceeded properly. The FDA’s analysis regarding the abuse liabil-
        ity deficiency examined the relevant data and articulated a satisfac-
        tory explanation for its actions, connecting its factfinding to its de-
        cision to issue a Marketing Denial Order. This deficiency is legally
        sufficient to sustain the FDA’s Marketing Denial Order, so we have
        no occasion to address, and do not address, the other two inde-
        pendent grounds articulated by the FDA. We deny Bidi Vapor’s
        petition for review.
                                          I.
                The Tobacco Control Act of 2009 makes it unlawful for
        manufacturers to sell any “new tobacco product” without approval
        from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. See 21 U.S.C. § 387j.
        A “new tobacco product” is any tobacco product that was not on
        the market as of February 15, 2007. Id. § 387j(a)(1). The Tobacco
        Control Act instructs the FDA to deny applications for new tobacco
        products if the Administration ﬁnds, based on the information be-
        fore it, “a lack of a showing that permitting such tobacco product
        to be marketed would be appropriate for the protection of the pub-
        lic health.” Id. §§ 387j(c)(2), (c)(2)(A). Whether a new tobacco
        product is “appropriate for the protection of the public health” re-
        quires the FDA to consider “the risks and beneﬁts to the population
        as a whole, including users and nonusers of the tobacco product,”
        and the Tobacco Control Act speciﬁcally instructs that the FDA
        shall take into account “the increased or decreased likelihood that
        existing users of tobacco products will stop using such products,”
        as well as “the increased or decreased likelihood that those who do
USCA11 Case: 24-10263      Document: 51-1      Date Filed: 04/24/2025      Page: 4 of 22




        4                      Opinion of the Court                  24-10263

        not use tobacco products will start using such products.” Id.
        § 387j(c)(4). In 2016, the FDA determined that Electronic Nicotine
        Delivery Systems using nicotine derived from tobacco, including e-
        liquids and e-cigarettes, were “tobacco products” within the FDA’s
        regulatory authority. Deeming Tobacco Products to Be Subject to
        the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 81 Fed. Reg. 28,974,
        29,028 (May 10, 2016).
               Applications with the FDA for a new tobacco product must
        contain, among other information, “full reports of all information,
        published or known to, or which should reasonably be known to,
        the applicant, concerning investigations which have been made to
        show the health risks of such tobacco product and whether such
        tobacco product presents less risk than other tobacco products,” as
        well as “a full statement of the components, ingredients, additives,
        and properties, and of the principle or principles of operation, of
        such tobacco product.” 12 U.S.C. §§ 387j(b)(1)(A)–(B).
               On September 8, 2020, Bidi Vapor applied to market Bidi
        Classic, Bidi Vapor’s tobacco-flavored ENDS product.
                On March 20, 2023, the FDA sent Bidi Vapor a deficiency
        letter. The deficiency letter identified 32 items for Bidi Vapor to
        address, which were necessary for the FDA to complete its scien-
        tific review. Among those items, the FDA identified three deficien-
        cies relevant to this case: (1) the clinical studies Bidi Vapor submit-
        ted regarding nicotine exposure reported higher maximum nico-
        tine exposure and total nicotine exposure after the use of Bidi Va-
        por’s product compared to after the use of “usual brand” cigarettes;
USCA11 Case: 24-10263      Document: 51-1     Date Filed: 04/24/2025     Page: 5 of 22




        24-10263               Opinion of the Court                        5

        (2) Bidi Vapor had failed “to conduct a study using non-targeted
        semi-quantitative chemical analysis to identify all possible leacha-
        bles from the ENDS components” of Bidi Classic; and (3) Bidi Va-
        por incorrectly calculated or reported the limits of detection for
        many harmful and potentially harmful constituents (HPHCs) in
        comparison ENDS products, preventing the FDA from fully evalu-
        ating the aerosol HPHC data for Bidi Classic.
               In response to the deﬁciency letter, Bidi Vapor submitted
        three amendments to the FDA. The FDA reviewed all of the evi-
        dence in multiple disciplines, including the regulatory, engineering,
        chemistry, microbiology, toxicology, behavioral and clinical phar-
        macology, medical, epidemiology, social science, environmental
        science, Bioresearch Monitoring, and manufacturing/lab disci-
        plines. For all disciplines except for toxicology and Bioresearch
        Monitoring, the FDA also conducted a second round of review, or
        a “Cycle 2 review,” after submission of Bidi Vapor’s amendments.
        The FDA determined that “in light of the other non-toxicological
        deﬁciencies . . . that form the bases for denial of the PMTA, com-
        pleting a cycle 2 toxicology review is not warranted.”
              On January 22, 2024, the FDA issued a Marketing Denial Or-
        der (“MDO”) for Bidi Classic. The FDA identiﬁed “three independ-
        ent deﬁciencies in the application that are each an independently
        suﬃcient reason to support a marketing denial order for the subject
        product.”
               One deﬁciency related to Bidi Classic’s high abuse liability
        (the “abuse liability deﬁciency”). Abuse liability is “the ability of
USCA11 Case: 24-10263      Document: 51-1      Date Filed: 04/24/2025      Page: 6 of 22




        6                      Opinion of the Court                  24-10263

        the product to promote continued use and the development of ad-
        diction and dependence.” Abuse liability evaluations “consider the
        addictiveness and abuse potential of the tobacco products and the
        exposure to nicotine during product use.” The FDA noted that Bidi
        Vapor’s sponsored clinical study showed that Bidi Classic has a
        “similar” or “higher abuse liability” than combustible cigarettes
        (“CCs”) among current CC users with no experience using ENDS,
        and it has “higher abuse liability than CC among experienced
        ENDS users.” Because a “new product with higher abuse liability
        compared to CC will promote compulsive and continued use of
        the new product despite harm or risk of harm,” “tobacco users are
        likely to maintain or augment their nicotine dependence and addic-
        tion with use of the new product, and tobacco nonusers (including
        youth) who initiate use of the new product are likely to continue
        using it and develop nicotine addiction and dependence.”
               Another identiﬁed deﬁciency related to Bidi Vapor’s submit-
        ted leachable study being incomplete (the “leachable contaminants
        deﬁciency”). “Leachables” are “chemical compounds that can mi-
        grate into an e-liquid . . . or into the aerosol, as a result of direct
        contact with or the interaction of materials or components” during
        the manufacturing process, under typical use conditions, or under
        storage conditions. Although Bidi Vapor used a technique in its
        study that was able to detect some leachable compounds with par-
        ticular chemical properties (speciﬁcally, volatile organic com-
        pounds and some semi-volatile organic compounds (“SVOCs”)),
        the technique is “not as eﬀective at detecting and identifying other
        additional SVOCs and cannot detect non-volatile organic
USCA11 Case: 24-10263      Document: 51-1     Date Filed: 04/24/2025     Page: 7 of 22




        24-10263               Opinion of the Court                        7

        compounds (NVOCs) or thermally labile leachable compounds.”
        As a result, the FDA found that Bidi Vapor had again failed to pro-
        vide a “comprehensive leachable study,” given that “the health risks
        associated with the presence of other possible leachables . . . have
        not been fully evaluated and cannot be accounted for in the assess-
        ment of risks and beneﬁts of the marketing of the new product.”
               Finally, the third deﬁciency the FDA identiﬁed related to the
        “lack of aerosol HPHC yields for comparison ENDS that are
        needed to evaluate comparative health risks of the new product
        subject to this review relative to other tobacco products from the
        same category” (the “comparison data deﬁciency”). Speciﬁcally,
        the HPHC data for comparison ENDS products “were not meas-
        ured and collected in a manner that is suﬃcient or appropriate to
        compare to the new product’s data.” Because there was a “lack of
        information on methods used to collect the data,” this “prevent[ed]
        FDA from assessing the reliability of the reported HPHC data.”
        Thus, since this data relating to harmful or potentially harmful con-
        taminants was not usable, the “FDA [could not] complete the as-
        sessment of risks and beneﬁts and determine whether the market-
        ing of the new product subject to this review would be [appropriate
        for the protection of the public health].”
               This timely appeal followed, when Bidi Vapor ﬁled its Peti-
        tion for Review on January 26, 2024 pursuant to 21 U.S.C. § 387l(a).
        On February 2, 2024, Bidi Vapor moved for a stay pending appeal,
        which this Court denied on February 16.
USCA11 Case: 24-10263      Document: 51-1      Date Filed: 04/24/2025    Page: 8 of 22




        8                      Opinion of the Court                24-10263

               On appeal, Bidi Vapor makes various arguments for why the
        FDA’s Marketing Denial Order should be set aside. Bidi Vapor ar-
        gues generally that the FDA (1) based its MDO on discrete deﬁcien-
        cies without ever engaging in a multifactored and multidisciplinary
        analysis weighing the potential beneﬁts against its deﬁciencies; (2)
        eﬀectively imposed “tobacco product standards” on Bidi Vapor, in-
        cluding product testing standards and nicotine restrictions, without
        going through notice and comment rulemaking; and (3) failed to
        conduct a “Cycle 2” toxicological review. Bidi Vapor also argues,
        speciﬁcally as to the abuse liability deﬁciency, that (1) the FDA re-
        versed its prior policy regarding the need for a comparable level of
        abuse liability; (2) the MDO contradicted statements that nonusers
        and youth are unlikely to use Bidi Classic; and (3) the FDA failed to
        weigh evidence on switching in the context of other beneﬁts to
        smokers and a low risk to nonusers and youth.
                                         II.
               This Court reviews the FDA’s denial of an application to
        market a new tobacco product pursuant to the Administrative Pro-
        cedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A). See 21 U.S.C. § 387l(b). An
        agency’s action, findings, and conclusions may be held unlawful
        and set aside if they are “arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discre-
        tion, or otherwise not in accordance with law.” 5 U.S.C. §
        706(2)(A). “The ‘arbitrary-and-capricious standard requires that
        agency action be reasonable and reasonably explained.’” Bidi Vapor
        LLC v. FDA, 47 F.4th 1191, 1202 (11th Cir. 2022) (quoting FCC v.
        Prometheus Radio Project, 141 S. Ct. 1150, 1158 (2021)). “It follows
USCA11 Case: 24-10263       Document: 51-1       Date Filed: 04/24/2025      Page: 9 of 22




        24-10263                Opinion of the Court                            9

        that agency action is lawful only if it rests ‘on a consideration of the
        relevant factors.’” Michigan v. EPA, 576 U.S. 743, 750 (2015) (quot-
        ing Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Ass’n v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co., 463
        U.S. 29, 43 (1983)).
                As the Supreme Court recently explained: “Our well-worn
        arbitrary-and-capricious standard ensures that an administrative
        agency ‘examine[d] the relevant data and articulate[d] a satisfactory
        explanation for its action including a rational connection between
        the facts found and the choice made.’” FDA v. Wages & White Lion
        Invs., L.L.C., 145 S. Ct. 898, 917 (2025) (alterations in original) (quot-
        ing State Farm, 463 U.S. at 43). “The scope of this review ‘is nar-
        row,’ and reviewing courts must exercise appropriate deference to
        agency decisionmaking and not substitute their own judgment for
        that of the agency.” Id. (quoting State Farm, 463 U.S. at 43). “When
        an agency relies on multiple grounds for its decision, some of
        which are invalid, we may nonetheless sustain the decision as long
        as one is valid and the agency would clearly have acted on that
        ground even if the other were unavailable.” Fontem US, LLC v. FDA,
        82 F.4th 1207, 1217 (D.C. Cir. 2023) (quoting Casino Airlines, Inc. v.
        Nat’l Transp. Safety Bd., 439 F.3d 715, 717 (D.C. Cir. 2006)).
               The FDA reasonably determined that denial of Bidi Vapor’s
        PMTA was warranted based on the abuse liability deficiency. Bidi
        Vapor was required to submit information to the FDA showing
        that Bidi Classic was “appropriate for the protection of the public
        health,” 21 U.S.C. § 387j(c)(2)(A), and it failed to make that showing
        because Bidi Vapor’s data showed that Bidi Classic was at odds with
USCA11 Case: 24-10263     Document: 51-1      Date Filed: 04/24/2025    Page: 10 of 22




        10                     Opinion of the Court                24-10263

        the protection of the public health. As a result, Bidi Vapor’s cri-
        tiques that the FDA was required to balance the benefits and defi-
        ciencies of Bidi Classic, or that the FDA had to conduct a second
        cycle of toxicological review, are unpersuasive. Because the FDA
        did not act arbitrarily or capriciously in denying the Bidi Classic
        PMTA based on the independently sufficient abuse liability defi-
        ciency, we have no occasion to address, and do not address the two
        testing deficiencies offered by the FDA -- the leachable contami-
        nants deficiency and the comparison data deficiency.
                Moreover, the FDA did not impermissibly impose “tobacco
        product standards” on Bidi Vapor. “[T]he choice made between
        proceeding by general rule or by individual, ad hoc litigation is one
        that lies primarily in the informed discretion of the administrative
        agency.” SEC v. Chenery Corp. (Chenery II), 332 U.S. 194, 203 (1947).
        Under the Tobacco Control Act:
              The Secretary shall deny an application . . . if, upon
              the basis of the information submitted to the Secre-
              tary as part of the application and any other infor-
              mation before the Secretary with respect to such to-
              bacco product, the Secretary ﬁnds that . . . there is a
              lack of a showing that permitting such tobacco prod-
              uct to be marketed would be appropriate for the pro-
              tection of the public health.

        21 U.S.C. §§ 387j(c)(2), (c)(2)(A) (emphasis added). The FDA rea-
        sonably explained deﬁciencies in Bidi Vapor’s submissions as part
        of its holistic adjudicatory review of Bidi Classic’s risks and bene-
        ﬁts. The FDA was required to consider: whether Bidi Classic
USCA11 Case: 24-10263      Document: 51-1      Date Filed: 04/24/2025     Page: 11 of 22




        24-10263               Opinion of the Court                         11

        “presents less risk than other tobacco products,” id. § 387j(b)(1)(A);
        “the risks and beneﬁts to the population as a whole,” id. § 387j(c)(4);
        “the increased or decreased likelihood that existing users of to-
        bacco products will stop using such products,” id. § 387j(c)(4)(A);
        and “the increased or decreased likelihood that those who do not
        use tobacco products will start using such products,” id. §
        387j(c)(4)(B). It reasonably considered all of those factors when is-
        suing its MDO.
                                          A.
               For starters, the FDA reasonably determined that Bidi Va-
        por’s evidence showed a high risk that Bidi Classic would increase
        the likelihood and severity of addiction, including among youth. In
        general, the FDA has explained, e-cigarettes can potentially benefit
        public health if they encourage combustible cigarette smokers to
        completely switch away from smoking combustible cigarettes,
        since doing so “may reduce exposure to some carcinogens and
        other toxicants known to be associated with tobacco-related dis-
        eases from using [combustible cigarettes].”
               In making its evaluation, the FDA considers tradeoffs with
        respect to abuse liability -- “the ability of the product to promote
        continued use and the development of addiction and dependence.”
        On the one hand, a product with low abuse liability is less likely to
        addict new users, but it also may be an inadequate substitute for
        products used by current users. On the other hand, a product with
        a high abuse liability “puts users who switch at risk of maintaining
        or augmenting their addiction and poses a high risk of addiction to
USCA11 Case: 24-10263      Document: 51-1      Date Filed: 04/24/2025     Page: 12 of 22




        12                     Opinion of the Court                  24-10263

        nonusers who initiate tobacco use or experiment with the new
        product.” After reviewing Bidi Vapor’s submission, the FDA de-
        termined that the nicotine concentration of Bidi Classic, at 60
        mg/mL, was “on the higher end of most ENDS tested in the liter-
        ature,” which “range from 3–60 mg/mL.” Notably, Bidi Classic
        “had higher nicotine exposure” even than most combustible ciga-
        rettes and other ENDS. Finally, the use of “nicotine salts” in Bidi
        Classic “reduces the harshness of the high nicotine concentration
        in the new product” and “mak[es] it more palatable.”
                Viewing together all of the evidence Bidi Vapor submitted,
        the FDA determined that Bidi Classic’s abuse liability is “similar to
        or higher than the abuse liability of [combustible cigarettes] among
        inexperienced ENDS users” and in fact “will be higher than [com-
        bustible cigarettes]” in “experienced users of ENDS.” Accordingly,
        the FDA found that Bidi Classic “increases the likelihood that to-
        bacco users who try the new product will continue using it” and
        “increases the likelihood that tobacco nonusers, including youth,
        who try the new product will continue using it, particularly since
        the nicotine salts in the e-liquid will likely reduce the harshness of
        the high (6%) nicotine concentration,” resulting in a “likely in-
        crease [in] nicotine dependence and addiction in all of these popu-
        lations.” As a result, the FDA reasonably determined that Bidi Clas-
        sic’s high abuse liability rendered it inappropriate for the protection
        of public health.
                Bidi Vapor raises several arguments relating to the abuse lia-
        bility deﬁciency: (1) the FDA reversed its prior policy regarding the
USCA11 Case: 24-10263     Document: 51-1      Date Filed: 04/24/2025    Page: 13 of 22




        24-10263               Opinion of the Court                       13

        need for a comparable level of abuse liability; (2) the MDO contra-
        dicted statements that nonusers and youth are unlikely to use Bidi
        Classic; and (3) the FDA failed to weigh evidence on switching in
        the context of other beneﬁts to smokers and a low risk to nonusers
        and youth. None of these arguments is persuasive, and none
        demonstrates that the FDA acted arbitrarily or capriciously.
                For one thing, the FDA did not reverse its prior policy re-
        garding the need for a comparable level of abuse liability in ENDS
        and in combustible cigarettes. The FDA explicitly acknowledged
        that a product with low abuse liability can be less eﬀective at help-
        ing smokers of combustible cigarettes switch to ENDS or quit. On
        page 25 of the FDA’s Technical Project Lead review of Bidi Vapor’s
        PMTA, the FDA states that “if a new product has a low abuse lia-
        bility, individuals who are currently dependent on nicotine may
        ﬁnd it to be an inadequate substitute for the product they are cur-
        rently using.” The point that the FDA made was that there are
        tradeoﬀs between high and low abuse liability. A product with low
        abuse liability might be less addictive for new users, but it also
        might be an inadequate substitute for existing users. On the other
        hand, a product with a higher abuse liability might be better as a
        substitute product for existing users, but it also might addict more
        new users. Under the Tobacco Control Act, these considerations
        must be balanced. The FDA reasonably applied these principles,
        and its decision approving NJOY’s Daily Extra Rich Tobacco 6%
        product (the “NJOY Product”) is entirely consistent with its deci-
        sion denying Bidi Classic’s application despite the two products
        having the same concentration of nicotine.
USCA11 Case: 24-10263      Document: 51-1      Date Filed: 04/24/2025     Page: 14 of 22




        14                     Opinion of the Court                  24-10263

               Considering ﬁrst the risks inherent in each product, the
        Technical Project Lead review of the PMTA for the NJOY product
        found “an abuse liability approaching that of combusted ciga-
        rettes” and the “inherent risk of addiction” of the NJOY product
        “to be no higher than other currently available tobacco products.”
        Indeed, the FDA found that based on NJOY’s clinical study, overall
        “nicotine exposure from [NJOY’s] products did not exceed that of
        combusted cigarettes.” In contrast, Bidi Classic has “similar to or
        higher abuse liability than CC among current CC users with no ex-
        perience using ENDS, and higher abuse liability than CC among
        experienced ENDS users.”
               As for the beneﬁts, the FDA’s Technical Project Lead review
        of NJOY’s PMTA notes that based on “the submitted clinical evi-
        dence” for the NJOY product, there was “support for a potential
        beneﬁt of smokers trying to switch to the new products.” On the
        other hand, as we’ve already observed, Bidi Vapor failed to make a
        similar showing of beneﬁt, given the inconclusive results about
        whether combustible cigarette smokers would switch partially or
        completely to Bidi Classic. In sum, the FDA determined that Bidi
        Classic exposes users to more risks and has fewer beneﬁts than the
        NJOY product, so its denial of Bidi Classic and approval of the
        NJOY product was not arbitrary and capricious. The FDA properly
        “examine[d] the relevant data and articulate[d] a satisfactory expla-
        nation for its action[s].” Wages & White Lion, 145 S. Ct. at 917 (quot-
        ing State Farm, 463 U.S. at 43).
USCA11 Case: 24-10263     Document: 51-1      Date Filed: 04/24/2025    Page: 15 of 22




        24-10263               Opinion of the Court                       15

               Next, the MDO was consistent with statements that nonus-
        ers and youth are unlikely to use Bidi Classic. To evaluate the over-
        all public health consequences of a new tobacco product, the FDA
        must consider not only the likelihood that nonusers and youth use
        the product, but also the risk of addiction or nicotine dependence.
        After all, if people were certain to try a tobacco product but had no
        risk of developing addiction or dependence, then that product
        might pose less of a public health risk than would a diﬀerent to-
        bacco product that is only likely to be tried by a small percentage
        of people but that inevitably increases nicotine dependence and ad-
        diction risks.
                That is the calculus that the FDA considered in this case.
        The FDA stated in its Technical Project Lead review of the PMTA
        that there was a “low likelihood of use of the new product,” not
        that there was zero or near-zero likelihood. The FDA also stated
        that the “likelihood of increased nicotine dependence and addic-
        tion risks due to continued use of the new product among tobacco
        nonusers, including youth, who do initiate are concerning.” Be-
        cause those increased risks associated with Bidi Classic were so
        high, the FDA reasonably found that they outweighed the low like-
        lihood of initial use.
                Finally, the argument that the FDA failed to weigh evidence
        on switching in the context of other beneﬁts to smokers and a low
        risk to nonusers and youth is unconvincing for many of the reasons
        previously discussed. The FDA explicitly recognized that “[f ]or to-
        bacco-ﬂavored ENDS the risk to youth is lower compared to
USCA11 Case: 24-10263     Document: 51-1      Date Filed: 04/24/2025     Page: 16 of 22




        16                     Opinion of the Court                 24-10263

        ﬂavored ENDS; accordingly, a lesser showing of beneﬁt may suf-
        ﬁce.” The problem is that on balance, Bidi Vapor failed to make
        even that “lesser showing of beneﬁt” for Bidi Classic. As we previ-
        ously discussed, even though ENDS typically have the beneﬁt of
        reducing toxicant exposure or adverse health outcomes, those ben-
        eﬁts depend on current tobacco users “partially or completely
        switch[ing] to the new product.” And the evidence submitted by
        Bidi Vapor and reviewed by the FDA “was inconclusive to demon-
        strate that current tobacco users (including CC users) would likely
        use the new product to partially or completely switch to the new
        product.” Beyond the lack of evidence for Bidi Classic’s beneﬁts,
        there is also strong evidence that the risks of Bidi Classic, in the
        form of increased likelihood of addiction and nicotine dependence
        risks, are especially high. Again, the FDA reasonably found that
        Bidi Vapor failed to make its required “lesser showing of beneﬁt.”
               In sum, because of Bidi Classic’s high abuse liability and Bidi
        Vapor’s failure to show Bidi Classic’s beneﬁts, the FDA reasonably
        determined that Bidi Classic was not appropriate for the protection
        of the public health.
                                         B.
                Bidi Vapor offers various arguments to challenge the validity
        of the FDA’s MDO, but none of these arguments is persuasive.
        First, relying on Fontem US, LLC v. FDA, 82 F.4th 1207 (D.C. Cir.
        2023), a decision from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Cir-
        cuit, Bidi Vapor claims that the leachable contaminants deficiency
        and the comparison data deficiency relied only on technical
USCA11 Case: 24-10263     Document: 51-1      Date Filed: 04/24/2025     Page: 17 of 22




        24-10263               Opinion of the Court                        17

        deficiencies without evaluating on balance whether Bidi Classic
        presents less risk to public health than combustible cigarettes, and
        that the FDA’s abuse liability deficiency failed to consider the po-
        tential for reduced harm, notwithstanding Bidi Classic’s higher
        abuse liability.
               The comparison to Fontem is not persuasive, however. In
        Fontem, the FDA issued a Marketing Denial Order against Fontem’s
        vaping products. Id. at 1211, 1213. The MDO “rested entirely on
        the finding that Fontem had not sufficiently demonstrated that per-
        mitting its products to be marked would be ‘appropriate for the
        protection of the public health.’” Id. at 1213 (quoting 21 U.S.C. §
        387j(c)(2)(A)). In support of that conclusion, the FDA identified
        five “highly technical deficiencies,” but did not “explain[] how the
        deficiencies relate to the overall public health consequences of Fon-
        tem’s . . . products.” Id. at 1219. Moreover, the FDA did not ad-
        dress “the possibility that existing users of combustible tobacco
        products such as cigarettes would reap health benefits by transi-
        tioning to Fontem’s vaping products.” Id. In other words, the FDA
        based its MDO only on “highly technical deficiencies” and never
        explained how those deficiencies connected to public health conse-
        quences, and it never considered the effects of Fontem’s products
        on existing smokers’ health.
                In sharp contrast, the FDA reasonably explained the abuse
        liability deficiency. The FDA explicitly considered the effect of Bidi
        Classic on existing smokers’ health. On page 5 of the MDO, the
        FDA states: “Due to the high abuse liability of the new product,
USCA11 Case: 24-10263     Document: 51-1      Date Filed: 04/24/2025     Page: 18 of 22




        18                     Opinion of the Court                 24-10263

        tobacco users are likely to maintain or augment their nicotine de-
        pendence and addiction with use of the new product.” The FDA
        also explained that the evidence submitted by Bidi Vapor and re-
        viewed by the FDA “was inconclusive to demonstrate that current
        tobacco users (including CC users) would likely use the new prod-
        uct to partially or completely switch to the new product.”
                Accordingly, unlike how the FDA in Fontem failed to directly
        consider the public health consequences of the tobacco product at
        issue, the FDA made no such error here. It considered the public
        health risks and benefits and tied the abuse liability deficiency to
        those risks and benefits. Because the FDA found that the abuse
        liability deficiency was “an independently sufficient reason to sup-
        port a marketing denial order,” we decline to address Bidi Vapor’s
        arguments regarding the leachable contaminants deficiency and
        the comparison data deficiency. See Fontem, 82 F.4th at 1217.
               Bidi Vapor also claims that the FDA ignored evidence it sub-
        mitted in response to the deficiency letter, but a review of the ad-
        ministrative record indicates otherwise. The FDA, in fact, either
        explicitly or implicitly considered that data: in the MDO, the FDA
        explicitly states that it reviewed Bidi Vapor’s responses to the defi-
        ciency letter. And the Technical Project Lead review of Bidi Va-
        por’s Premarket Tobacco Product Application also reveals that the
        FDA considered those pieces of evidence. For example, the FDA
        explicitly listed the methodological problems in Bidi Vapor’s sub-
        mitted aerosol testing, indicating that the FDA considered that ev-
        idence. Next, the FDA credited Bidi Vapor’s extractable study from
USCA11 Case: 24-10263      Document: 51-1      Date Filed: 04/24/2025     Page: 19 of 22




        24-10263               Opinion of the Court                         19

        a chemistry perspective. Similarly, the FDA implicitly appears to
        have credited Bidi Vapor’s in vitro studies, since the March 20, 2023
        deficiency letter discussed problems with in vitro studies not con-
        taining sufficient information for a complete toxicological evalua-
        tion, but the subsequent MDO does not discuss that deficiency.
                Finally, the FDA did not act arbitrarily or capriciously in
        choosing not to conduct a Cycle 2 toxicological review. As the
        FDA explained, after notifying the applicant of a deficiency, an ad-
        ditional cycle of review is aimed at assessing the applicant’s efforts
        to cure deficiencies within a scientific discipline, but the FDA may
        decline to proceed with an additional cycle of review if review can-
        not cure the shortcomings already identified. This makes logical
        sense, given limited agency resources: if shortcomings in fields
        other than toxicology are dispositive and fatal to a company’s ap-
        plication, then there is no reason that the FDA would need to also
        do a second round of review in toxicology, which would not ad-
        dress deficiencies in those other fields. In the best-case scenario for
        the applicant, a Cycle 2 toxicological review would remove as ad-
        ditional shortcomings toxicological deficiencies previously identi-
        fied in a Cycle 1 toxicological review; it would do nothing to elim-
        inate shortcomings in non-toxicology fields.
              In this case, the FDA identified that the abuse liability defi-
        ciency was fatal to Bidi Vapor’s PMTA. Specifically, the FDA ob-
        served that “ENDS are generally likely to have fewer and lower
        concentrations of harmful and potentially harmful constituents”
        than combustible cigarettes, but “whether this is true for any
USCA11 Case: 24-10263     Document: 51-1       Date Filed: 04/24/2025        Page: 20 of 22




        20                     Opinion of the Court                    24-10263

        particular new ENDS is considered on a case-by-case basis” -- and
        key to the FDA’s analysis is whether “adults who use [combustible
        cigarettes] . . . switch completely to ENDS, or if they use both prod-
        ucts but substantially reduce their cigarette smoking,” which could
        result in “a reduction in health risks.” Put differently, the FDA rec-
        ognized that the health benefits associated with ENDS like Bidi Va-
        por depend on whether “current tobacco users . . . would likely use
        the new product to partially or completely switch to the new prod-
        uct (and therefore, reduce CC use, toxicant exposure, and adverse
        health outcomes).” Otherwise, if a cigarette smoker merely sup-
        plemented his cigarette smoking with Bidi Classic, he would be tak-
        ing in the same amount of toxins from his combustible cigarette
        and adding nicotine from Bidi Classic, potentially causing “in-
        creased likelihood of addiction and nicotine dependence risks.”
              In this case, the FDA observed that:
              Although evidence from the applicant-provided stud-
              ies showed some evidence of current tobacco users
              intending to try or progress to regular use of the new
              product, product use data showed a low likelihood of
              initiation and use of the new product overall among
              current tobacco users. Additionally, evidence from the
              applicant-submitted data was inconclusive to demonstrate
              that current tobacco users (including CC users) would likely
              use the new product to partially or completely switch to the
              new product (and therefore, reduce CC use, toxicant expo-
              sure, and adverse health outcomes). On the other hand,
              because the new product has a high nicotine concen-
              tration and is associated with high abuse liability, the
USCA11 Case: 24-10263      Document: 51-1      Date Filed: 04/24/2025      Page: 21 of 22




        24-10263                Opinion of the Court                         21

               continued use and increased likelihood of addiction
               and nicotine dependence risks, particularly among
               youth and adult tobacco nonusers, are concerning.

        Thus, Bidi Vapor was unable to demonstrate that combustible cig-
        arette smokers were likely to “partially or completely switch” to
        Bidi Classic. That omission negated any potential health benefits
        of Bidi Classic and any potential lower toxin levels associated with
        Bidi Classic, since those benefits are premised on the user switching
        away from combustible cigarettes.
                Moreover, the FDA reasonably found that Bidi Classic car-
        ries additional risks in light of its high nicotine content, such as a
        greater likelihood of addiction or nicotine dependence. As a result,
        even if the FDA had conducted a Cycle 2 toxicological review, that
        review would do nothing to change the conclusions that (1) there
        is no indication that combustible cigarette users are likely to par-
        tially or completely switch from using combustible cigarettes to us-
        ing Bidi Classic, and (2) as a result, there is no indication that users
        of Bidi Classic would realize health benefits.
              In sum, the abuse liability deficiency does not rely on toxi-
        cological reasons, so a Cycle 2 toxicological review would not have
        negated those reasons. The FDA reasonably determined that it did
        not need to conduct a futile Cycle 2 toxicological review.
               Ultimately, the burden was on Bidi Vapor to demonstrate
        that Bidi Classic is appropriate for the protection of public health.
        The FDA reasonably determined that because Bidi Vapor submit-
        ted studies and data about a product with a high abuse liability and
USCA11 Case: 24-10263     Document: 51-1     Date Filed: 04/24/2025    Page: 22 of 22




        22                    Opinion of the Court                 24-10263

        insufficient benefits, denial of the PMTA for Bidi Classic was well-
        justified. The FDA did not act in an arbitrary and capricious man-
        ner, and we deny Bidi Vapor’s Petition for Review.
              PETITION DENIED.
