          United States Court of Appeals
                      For the First Circuit


No. 08-1878

                 NORTHEASTERN LAND SERVICES, LTD.
                       d/b/a THE NLS GROUP,

                   Petitioner/Cross-Respondent,

                                v.

                 NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD,

                   Respondent/Cross-Petitioner.


              ON PETITION FOR REVIEW OF AN ORDER OF
                THE NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD


                              Before

                       Lynch, Chief Judge,
                Boudin and Lipez, Circuit Judges.


     Richard D. Wayne with whom Hinckley, Allen & Snyder LLP was on
brief for petitioner.
     Ruth E. Burdick, Attorney, with whom Ronald Meisburg, General
Counsel, John E. Higgins, Jr., Deputy General Counsel, John H.
Ferguson, Associate General Counsel, Linda Dreeben, Deputy
Associate General Counsel, Meredith Jason, Supervising Attorney,
and Milakshmi V. Rajapakse, National Labor Relations Board, were on
brief for respondent.


                          March 13, 2009
            LYNCH, Chief Judge. This case provides a cautionary tale

for employers about the risk of maintaining and enforcing a broad

confidentiality clause.      Northeastern Land Services, Ltd. ("NLS")

petitions for review of the National Labor Relations Board's

finding that it violated section 8(a)(1) of the National Labor

Relations Act ("NLRA"), 29 U.S.C. § 158(a)(1), by maintaining an

overbroad confidentiality provision and by discharging its employee

Jamison Dupuy for violating it.             Ne. Land Servs., Ltd., 352

N.L.R.B. No. 89, 2008-2009 NLRB Dec. (CCH) ¶ 15,110 (June 27,

2008).   The Board has filed a cross-application to enforce the

order.

            The case also raises an issue of first impression:

whether a two-member Board decision complied with the quorum

requirement of section 3(b) of the NLRA.          We deny the petition and

grant the Board's cross-application for enforcement.

                                     I.

            Because   "the   Board    is     primarily    responsible     for

developing and applying a coherent national labor policy, we accord

its decisions considerable deference."              NLRB v. Boston Dist.

Council of Carpenters, 80 F.3d 662, 665 (1st Cir. 1996) (citation

omitted).   The Board's judgment stands when the choice is "between

two   fairly   conflicting   views,       even   though   the   court   would

justifiably have made a different choice had the matter been before

it de novo."    Universal Camera Corp. v. NLRB, 340 U.S. 474, 488


                                     -2-
(1951).    A Board order must be enforced if the Board correctly

applied the law and if its factual findings are supported by

substantial evidence on the record.              29 U.S.C. § 160(e), (f);

Yesterday's Children, Inc. v. NLRB, 115 F.3d 36, 44 (1st Cir.

1997).     Where, as here, "the board has reached a conclusion

opposite   of   that   of    the   ALJ,    our   review   is   slightly    less

deferential than it would be otherwise."                C.E.K. Indus. Mech.

Contractors, Inc. v. NLRB, 921 F.2d 350, 355 (1st Cir. 1990).

                                     II.

           The facts are not in dispute.                NLS is a temporary

employment agency located in East Providence, Rhode Island which

supplies    workers     to    clients       in    the     natural    gas    and

telecommunications     industries,    but    pays   its    workers   directly.

Dupuy was employed twice by NLS as a right-of-way agent for the

acquisition of land rights by clients, from February to November

2000, and from July to October 2001.              Dupuy obtained the 2001

placement by contacting Rick Lopez, a project manager for NLS

client El Paso Energy, who had once worked with Dupuy at NLS.

Lopez directed Dupuy to contact NLS, which soon placed him with El

Paso at its Dracut Expansion Project in Massachusetts.

           Before both of Dupuy's placements by NLS, NLS required

Dupuy to sign a temporary employment contract which said, in

relevant part:

           Employee . . . understands that the terms of
           this employment, including compensation, are

                                     -3-
            confidential to Employee and the NLS Group.
            Disclosure of these terms to other parties may
            constitute grounds for dismissal.

This confidentiality provision is at the heart of this case.

            Dupuy   complained     to    NLS    about   repeated      delays   in

receiving his paycheck.      He was particularly concerned because he

had to pay for expenses such as his hotel bills up front and later

seek reimbursement.      After Dupuy tried to negotiate with NLS, and

even threatened to quit, Jesse Green, Executive Vice President and

Chief Operating Officer of NLS, agreed to call Lopez to see if El

Paso would either pay for Dupuy's hotel bill or provide a larger

per diem than NLS had offered to help with Dupuy's cash flow

problems.   Although NLS ultimately billed most of Dupuy's expenses

to El Paso, NLS was responsible for reimbursing Dupuy.                Green told

Dupuy that Lopez would not agree to any alternative arrangements.

            In   early   October   2001,      Dupuy   raised   two    additional

concerns about his job. The first arose when Dupuy contacted Lopez

to tell him that Dupuy's cell phone was not working.                 Dupuy asked

Lopez whether he might be able to work for El Paso through a

different employment agency because            Dupuy had not been paid in a

timely manner by NLS. Lopez refused Dupuy's request and gave Dupuy

the contact information of Norm Winters, an agent of NLS, to

resolve the pay issues.

            The second concern was the reimbursement for Dupuy's

work-related use of his personal computer.              Dupuy had initially


                                        -4-
arranged to receive a $15-per-day reimbursement for computer usage.

NLS treated this as a "pass-through" business expense for tax

purposes, which did not count as income to the employee, and on

which NLS did not pay Social Security taxes.                    On October 2,

however, Dupuy received an email from NLS's coordinator of human

resources, Susan Green, which referred to the computer usage

reimbursement rate as $12 per day.           Dupuy replied that El Paso had

authorized, and he had been billing, $15 per day for computer

usage; he questioned the $12-per-day rate.              Green told Dupuy that

NLS's accountants had determined that the computer usage cost

should be considered taxable compensation, rather than a pass-

through   expense   billed     to   El   Paso.        Green   stated   that   the

reclassification of the tax status of the computer usage fee had

increased NLS's overhead costs, requiring an offsetting reduction

of $3 per day.

            Dupuy   sent   a   reply     email   to   Green,   copying   Lopez,

stating, "By copy of this email to Rick Lopez, I am asking El Paso

to offset your surcharge and additional tax burden."              He said that

if he did not receive the offset, "I will no longer be using my

computer for this job.         El Paso will have to furnish me with a

digital camera, and I will no longer be available by email . . . .

After today and until the matter has been resolved, my equipment is

offline."




                                       -5-
                On the evening of October 3, he sent an email to everyone

working with him on the El Paso project, including Rick Lopez,

saying,        "Until further notice, my computer is offline and I will

not be accepting email.              I can still be reached by the contact

telephone numbers that you have."                 Dupuy did not copy any NLS

managers on the email.           Jesse Green testified that although he

tried to contact Dupuy numerous times by paging him, calling his

cell phone and leaving messages at his hotel and with other

employees, Dupuy did not call him back.

                On October 11, 2001, Jesse Green spoke with Dupuy on the

phone.         Green told Dupuy that NLS had tried to accommodate his

requests, but that it seemed that NLS could never make Dupuy happy

and, as a result, NLS thought it was best to terminate his

employment.        Dupuy replied that he would sue NLS for retaliatory

discharge, alleging that it fired him because he had threatened to

file       a   complaint   against    the    company   with   the   Massachusetts

Attorney General alleging violations of state wage laws.1                    When

Dupuy pressed Jesse Green for the reason for his termination, Green

replied that NLS had cause to terminate Dupuy's employment, as

Dupuy had "not lived up to [his] end of the bargain with [NLS]."




       1
          The alleged violations were NLS's failure to pay Dupuy
within six days of the end of the pay period and the deduction of
$3.00 from his compensation due to the change in the rate of
reimbursement for computer usage.

                                            -6-
            Jesse Green later testified that his statement regarding

Dupuy's "failure to live up to his end of the bargain" was a

reference to Dupuy's failure to comply with the confidentiality

provision in the temporary employment agreement that required him

not to disclose the terms of his employment to outside parties.

Green, who had drafted the confidentiality provision, further

testified that in making the determination that Dupuy had violated

the confidentiality provision by contacting El Paso directly, Green

thought it was "inappropriate" for Dupuy to "approach a client with

[his] . . . problems [about salary], [because] then we're not

providing the services that we contracted to provide."

            Dupuy filed an unfair labor practice charge on October

24, 2001, and filed an amended charge on December 17, 2001.                      The

complaint issued January 16, 2002, alleging that NLS violated

section    8(a)(1)   of   the    NLRA   by    maintaining      and   enforcing    an

unlawful confidentiality clause in its employment contract that

discouraged    employees        from    engaging   in    protected      concerted

activities, and by terminating Dupuy's employment on October 11 for

violating the terms of that clause.

            The ALJ found that although the provision did restrict

the employees' right to discuss their terms and conditions of

employment with third parties, "there are different gradations in

how seriously employees' Section 7 rights are affected."                  Relying

on   his   reading   of   Board    precedent,      the   ALJ    found   that     the



                                        -7-
confidentiality    provision   did   not    violate    section     8(a)(1),

explaining that "because [NLS] did not prohibit discussions of

terms and conditions of employment among fellow employees, I find

[NLS's] restriction a less serious infringement upon its employees'

Section 7 rights."    Relying on language from Desert Palace Inc.,

336 N.L.R.B. 271 (2001), the ALJ explained that "[i]t is necessary

to strike a proper balance between employees' Section 7 rights and

an employer's business justifications."         Noting the competitive

bidding process in NLS's industry, the ALJ found that NLS "had a

legitimate and substantial business justification for the rule

outweighing the restriction on the employees' Section 7 rights."

Dupuy appealed.

           On June 27, 2008, the Board, by a two-member panel,

reversed the ALJ's decision, determining that, under Martin Luther

Mem'l Home, Inc. (Lutheran Heritage), 343 N.L.R.B. 646 (2004), the

confidentiality    provision   was      unlawful   because       "employees

reasonably would construe it to prohibit activity protected by

Section 7." The Board explained, "The [confidentiality] provision,

by   its   clear   terms,   precludes      employees   from      discussing

compensation and other terms of employment with 'other parties.'

Employees would reasonably understand that language as prohibiting

discussions of their compensation with union representatives." The

Board determined that the provision was overbroad and therefore in




                                 -8-
violation of section 8(a)(1), without relying on whether NLS had

actually enforced the rule.

              As to the termination of Dupuy's employment for violating

the   rule,    the   Board   held,   "Under    extant   Board   precedent,   an

employer's imposition of discipline pursuant to an unlawfully

overbroad . . . rule constitutes a violation of the Act."             NLS had

conceded      that   it   dismissed    Dupuy    because    he   violated     the

confidentiality provision.            The Board concluded that "[NLS]'s

termination of Dupuy pursuant to [the confidentiality] provision

violated Section 8(a)(1)." In a footnote to the unlawful discharge

analysis, the Board explained that one member, Chairman Schaumber:

              [A]grees . . . that application of Double
              Eagle Hotel & Casino dictates a finding that
              Dupuy's termination violated Sec. 8(a)(1) of
              the Act.   However, he questions the theory
              that an employer's imposition of discipline
              pursuant to an unlawfully overbroad rule is
              necessarily unlawful, such as in situations
              where the discipline imposed is for a lawful
              reason albeit under an overly broad, unlawful
              rule. Nonetheless, he applies precedent for
              institutional reasons for the purpose of
              deciding this case.

Ne. Land Servs., 352 N.L.R.B. No. 89 at 3, n.9.

              The Board ordered, inter alia, that NLS rescind the

provision; that NLS notify its current and former employees under

the temporary employment agreement of the decision; that Dupuy be

reinstated to his former position or a substantially similar

position; that Dupuy be made whole "for any loss of earnings and

other benefits suffered as a result of the unlawful action taken


                                       -9-
against him"; and that NLS ensure that the references to the

unlawful discharge be deleted from NLS's files.

                                    III.

            We turn to NLS's challenge to the Board's decision.         NLS

contends that the decision could not be properly issued because the

Board lacked a quorum under section 3 of the NLRA, 29 U.S.C.

§ 153(b), in that it cannot delegate all of its powers to a two-

person panel.      On the merits, NLS argues that the Board erred in

finding that the confidentiality agreement violated section 7 and

in finding that Dupuy's termination violated the NLRA.                These

arguments fail.

A.          The Quorum Requirement

            The first issue raised is one of statutory interpretation

of section 3(b).        We owe some deference to the agency's view.

Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Res. Def. Council, Inc., 467 U.S.

837 (1984).      By statute, the Board consists of five members, who

are appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the

Senate   and    serve   staggered   terms   of   five   years.   29   U.S.C.

§ 153(a).      Section 3(b) of the NLRA states:

            The Board is authorized to delegate to any
            group of three or more members any or all of
            the powers which it may itself exercise. . . .
            A vacancy in the Board shall not impair the
            right of the remaining members to exercise all
            of the powers of the Board, and three members
            of the Board shall, at all times, constitute a
            quorum of the Board, except that two members
            shall constitute a quorum of any group
            designated pursuant to the first sentence
            hereof.

                                    -10-
29 U.S.C. § 153(b).

          Pursuant to that authority, the four members of the Board

who held office on December 28, 2007 delegated the Board's powers

to a three-member group.   When the term of one member of that group

expired three days later, a two-member quorum remained.2

          The Board's delegation of its institutional power to a

panel that ultimately consisted of a two-member quorum because of

a vacancy was lawful under the plain text of section 3(b).   First,

section 3(b) allowed the Board to delegate all of its powers to a

three-member group.   Second, the statute states that "[a] vacancy

in the Board shall not impair the right of the remaining members to

exercise all of the powers of the Board."   The vacancy, which left

the two-member quorum remaining, may not, under the terms of

section 3(b), impair the right of the two-member quorum to exercise

all powers of the Board.   This is consistent with the conclusion of



     2
         The Board explained:
              Effective midnight December 28, 2007,
         Members Liebman, Schaumber, Kirsanow, and
         Walsh delegated to Members Liebman, Schaumber,
         and Kirsanow, as a three-member group, all of
         the Board's powers in anticipation of the
         expiration of the terms of Members Kirsanow
         and Walsh on December 31, 2007. Pursuant to
         this delegation, Chairman Schaumber and Member
         Liebman    constitute   a   quorum    of   the
         three-member group.   As a quorum, they have
         the authority to issue decisions and orders in
         unfair labor practice and representation
         cases. See Sec. 3(b) of the Act.
Ne. Land Servs., 352 N.L.R.B. No. 89 at 1 n.2


                                -11-
the Office of Legal Counsel of the U.S. Department of Justice which

has concluded, "In our view, if the Board delegated all of its

powers to a group of three members, that group could continue to

issue decisions and orders as long as a quorum of two members

remained."    Quorum Requirements, Memorandum from M. Edward Whelan

III, Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney Gen., Office of Legal

Counsel, (Mar. 4, 2003), available at 2003 WL 24166831.        Moreover,

"[a]ny other general rule would impose an undue burden on the

administrative process."     R.R. Yardmasters of Am. v. Harris, 721

F.2d 1332, 1343 (D.C. Cir. 1983).

          Our   conclusion   is   consistent    with   that   of   another

circuit. Photo-Sonics, Inc. v. NLRB, 678 F.2d 121 (9th Cir. 1982).

In Photo-Sonics, a three-member panel of the Board heard the case,

but before the Board announced its decision, one member of the

panel submitted his resignation.    The resignation became effective

on the same day the decision in the case issued, although all three

members concurred in the decision.       The petitioner argued that the

decision was unenforceable because "it was not made by a properly

constituted three-member panel" because the resigning person, the

petitioner argued, could not have participated in the decision.

Id. at 122.   Photo-Sonics reasoned that under section        3(b), "Even

if [the member who resigned] did not participate [in the decision],

a decision by two members of the panel would still be binding," id.

at 122, and analogized the quorum requirement in section 3(b) to

the quorum for the federal courts of appeals. Photo-Sonics stated,

                                  -12-
"[c]ourts have interpreted 'quorum' to mean the 'number of the

members of the court as may legally transact judicial business.'"

Id. (quoting Tobin v. Ramey, 206 F.2d 505, 507 (5th Cir. 1953)).

The court concluded that the participation of the two-member quorum

needed to conduct business was sufficient.            Id. at 123.

           Further, courts have upheld analogous approaches by other

administrative agencies.        See Falcon Trading Group, Ltd. v. SEC,

102 F.3d 579, 582 (D.C. Cir. 1996) (upholding SEC's promulgation of

a new quorum rule to allow it to continue to operate in the face of

multiple vacancies); Hunter v. Nat'l Mediation Bd., 754 F.2d 1496,

1498-99 (9th Cir. 1985) (per curiam) (upholding decision by two

members of three-member panel of National Mediation Board allowing

two-member quorum where almost all of the preliminary work had been

performed by one member); R.R. Yardmasters of Am., 721 F.2d at 1340

n.26 (upholding the National Mediation Board's delegation of its

authority to a single member expected to remain in office).

B.         Overbreadth of the Confidentiality Provision

           Section    8    of   the    NLRA     prohibits   employers       from

"interfer[ing] with, restrain[ing], or coerc[ing] employees in the

exercise of the rights guaranteed in" section 7 of the NLRA.                 29

U.S.C. § 158(a)(1).       Section 7 guarantees employees the right to

"self-organization, to form, join, or assist labor organizations,

to   bargain   collectively     through      representatives   of   their   own

choosing, and to engage in other concerted activities for the



                                      -13-
purpose    of   collective     bargaining      or     other      mutual    aid   or

protection."    29 U.S.C. § 157.

            Section     8(a)(1)    has    been       read   to     bar     employer

interference    with    employees'    right    to     discuss     the    terms   and

conditions of their employment with others under section 7 of the

NLRA.     See Beth Israel Hosp. v. NLRB, 437 U.S. 483, 491 (1978)

("[T]he    right   of    employees       to   self-organize         and    bargain

collectively established by § 7 . . . necessarily encompasses the

right   effectively     to   communicate      with    one   another       regarding

self-organization at the jobsite."); Cent. Hardware Co. v. NLRB,

407 U.S. 539, 543 (1972) ("[O]rganization rights are not viable in

a vacuum; their effectiveness depends in some measure on the

ability of employees to learn the advantages and disadvantages of

organization from others.").

            An employer violates section 8(a)(1) when it maintains a

work rule that "would reasonably tend to chill employees in the

exercise of their Section 7 rights."             Lafayette Park Hotel, 326

N.L.R.B. 824, 825 (1998).         Under the Board's caselaw, if the rule

is "likely to have a chilling effect on Section 7 rights, the Board

may conclude that [its] maintenance is an unfair labor practice,

even absent evidence of enforcement."            Id.; see also Guardsmark,

LLC v. NLRB 475 F.3d 369, 374-80 (D.C. Cir. 2007) (explaining and

applying Lafayette Park "mere maintenance" rule).

            NLS contends that the confidentiality provision did not

violate the NLRA because, as a factual matter, it did not prohibit

                                     -14-
employees from discussing terms of employment among themselves and,

although it was enforced, it was not enforced in the face of union

activity. NLS asserts that mere broad wording, without evidence of

actual chilling of union activity, is insufficient to violate

section 8(a)(1).

             NLS then makes a qualitatively different argument: that

the Board must engage in a balancing test.                     Here, NLS contends the

Board failed to consider the legitimate justification it had for

the confidentiality provision: labor costs were a key component of

its   bids    to    clients,       and     NLS    did    not    want   its    employees

jeopardizing its bids.         NLS's arguments, however, are at odds with

current Board precedent.

             After the ALJ ruling and before the Board rendered its

decision here, the Board decided Lutheran Heritage, 343 N.L.R.B.

646 (2004).     Lutheran Heritage clarified the nature of the Board's

inquiry   and      confirmed       the   Board's        prior   caselaw      that   "mere

maintenance"       of   a   rule    that    "would      reasonably     tend    to   chill

employees in the exercise of their Section 7 rights" is unlawful

under Board caselaw, Lafayette Park, 326 N.L.R.B. at 825, and that

there need not be any evidence of actual chilling of union activity

as NLS claims.

             In Lutheran Heritage, the Board articulated a two-step

framework for determining whether an employer's maintenance of a

work rule violates section 8(a)(1).                First, if the rule explicitly

restricts section 7 activity, it is unlawful.                    Id. at 646.    Second,

                                           -15-
even if the rule does not explicitly restrict section 7 activity,

it is nonetheless unlawful if "(1) employees would reasonably

construe the language [of the rule] to prohibit Section 7 activity;

(2) the rule was promulgated in response to union activity; or (3)

the rule has been applied to restrict the exercise of Section 7

rights."   Id. at 647.

           Here, the Board relied on the first prong of the second

part of the test.      It found that although the NLS rule did not

explicitly restrict section 7 activity, employees would reasonably

construe the language of the rule to prohibit section 7 activity

under Lutheran Heritage. The plain language of the confidentiality

provision provides: "Disclosure of these terms [of employment] to

other parties may constitute grounds for dismissal."         The Board's

finding that this language could be fairly read to extend to

disclosure of terms of employment to union representatives is

supportable.     The     precise   subject   matter   of   the   forbidden

disclosure -- terms of employment, including compensation -- went

to a prime area of concern under section 7.3




     3
          NLS asserts that the confidentiality provision is lawful
because the plain text of the provision did not forbid employees
from talking to each other or to union organizers. This argument
fails to address the Board's Lutheran Heritage analysis, which
holds that a provision is unlawful if employees would reasonably
believe it forbids such communication.

                                   -16-
            The Board's interpretation was consistent with its prior

caselaw.4   See Cintas Corp., 344 N.L.R.B. 943, 943 (2005) (finding

overbroad a confidentiality provision prohibiting "the release of

'any information' regarding '[the company's] partners' [because it]

could be reasonably construed by employees to restrict discussion

of wages and other terms and conditions of employment with their

fellow employees and with the Union"), enforced, 482 F.3d 463 (D.C.

Cir. 2007).

            NLS argues that the Board should have considered that the

confidentiality provision was justified by legitimate business

reasons, citing Republic Aviation Corp. v. NLRB, 324 U.S. 793


     4
           NLS alludes to but does not develop an argument that the
Board's result is inconsistent with the prior caselaw, as
demonstrated by the ALJ's reading of the caselaw. We set aside
NLS's waiver and consider the point.            We find no such
inconsistency.
           In interpreting NLS's provision as a "less serious
infringement on its employees' Section 7 rights," the ALJ relied on
cases involving more narrowly drafted confidentiality provisions
than the one at issue here. See, e.g., K-Mart, 330 N.L.R.B. 263
(1999) (prohibition on disclosing "company business and documents"
did not by its terms include employee wages or working conditions
and made no reference to employee information); Lafayette Park
Hotel, 326 N.L.R.B. at 826 (rule banning discussion of
"hotel-private" information that did not on its face cover employee
wage discussion). Furthermore, under Lafayette Park and Lutheran
Heritage's "mere maintenance" rule, the Board did not need to
consider the employer's reasons for the rule. Cf. Desert Palace,
Inc., 336 N.L.R.B. 271, 272 (2001), (upholding employer's policy of
confidentiality on matters relating to its investigation of an
allegation that an employee was dealing drugs). Furthermore, since
its 1990 decision in Kinder-Care Learning Ctrs., Inc., 299 N.L.R.B.
1171 (1990), the Board has consistently held that when a rule's
plain language restricts employees' ability to communicate their
conditions of employment to third parties it violates section
8(a)(1).    Id. at 1172 (finding ban on "parent communication"
unlawful).

                                 -17-
(1945).    See    id.    at   798   (noting    that    in   section    7   analysis

"[o]pportunity to organize and proper discipline are both essential

elements in a balanced society"); see also Tex. Instruments, Inc.

v. NLRB, 637 F.2d 822, 833 (1st Cir. 1981).                 Nothing in Republic

Aviation compelled the Board to apply a balancing test here. While

the Board could have chosen to structure its rule differently and

engage in a balancing analysis, we owe deference to its decision

not to do so.          Further, as a practical matter, a more narrowly

drafted provision would be sufficient to accomplish NLS's goal in

maintaining confidentiality in bidding for contracts.                  See, e.g.,

Cintas Corp., 482 F.3d at 470 ("A more narrowly tailored rule that

does not interfere with protected employee activity would be

sufficient       to   accomplish    the   Company's     presumed      interest   in

protecting confidential information.").               We cannot say the Board's

interpretation was unreasonable.               Some may think this result

unattractive, but the Board's rule is intended to be prophylactic

and in any event is subject to deference.

C.          The Termination of Dupuy's Employment

            NLS has conceded that Dupuy was dismissed for violating

the confidentiality provision.               "[W]here discipline is imposed

pursuant    to    an    overbroad    rule,    that    discipline      is   unlawful

regardless of whether the conduct could have been prohibited by a

lawful rule."         Double Eagle Hotel & Casino, 341 N.L.R.B. 112, 112

n.3 (2004), enforced, 414 F.3d 1249 (10th Cir. 2005); see also

Opryland Hotel, 323 N.L.R.B. 723, 728 (1997).                    While Chairman

                                       -18-
Schaumber indicated he might question the rule, he conceded he was

bound by the precedent set in Double Eagle Hotel, 341 N.L.R.B.

112.5

              NLS claims that the discharge was lawful, relying on

Wright Line, a Div. of Wright Line, Inc., 251 N.L.R.B. 1083 (1980),

enforced, 662 F.2d 899 (1st Cir. 1981) to argue that NLS can avoid

liability if it demonstrates that it would have discharged Dupuy

even in the absence of an unlawful reason.                    NLS contends that it

would       have   terminated    Dupuy     even        in   the   absence   of   the

confidentiality       provision    because        he    was    "insubordinate    and

disruptive."       These arguments misconstrue the Board's precedent.

It also argues that even if its confidentiality provision was

unlawful, Dupuy's dismissal did not violate the act because he was

not engaged in union or concerted protected activity.

              Wright Line sets forth the test for assessing cases where

the     dispute    turns   on   employer    motive:         whether   the   employer

discharged an employee because of the employee's union affiliation,

or whether he acted because of some factor unrelated to the

employee's union status.         662 F.2d at 901.           Wright Line, however,

does not govern here. Under the Board's precedent, where the Board

finds an employer rule is invalid, discharge for violating that

        5
          To attack this principle, NLS cites only an ALJ's
decision in Electronic Data Systems Corp., No. 36-CA-7434, 1996 WL
33321516 (N.L.R.B. Div. of Judges June 11, 1996), where the ALJ did
not find an employee's dismissal pursuant to an overbroad
confidentiality rule unlawful. The ALJ's unreviewed opinion is not
binding on the Board or on this court.

                                     -19-
rule is invalid.      See Saia Motor Freight Line, Inc., 333 N.L.R.B.

784, 785 (2001) ("Because [the employee] was disciplined for

violating the [employer]'s unlawful overly broad . . . rule, that

discipline itself constitutes a violation of Section 8(a)(3) and

(1),   without     consideration    of    Wright    Line's    dual-motivation

analysis.").

              The Board did not err in not considering that Dupuy would

have   been    discharged   in   the    absence    of   a   violation   of   the

confidentiality provision. The Board supportably relied on its own

precedents to determine that any discharge pursuant to an unlawful

rule is itself unlawful.           "The fact that one reason for [an

employee's] reprimand was lawful in no way diminishes the fact that

the other reason was unlawful."          A.T. & S.F. Mem'l Hosps., Inc.,

234 N.L.R.B. 436, 436 (1978).

              We deny NLS's petition for review and enter judgment

enforcing the order of the Board.




                                       -20-
