                     FOR PUBLICATION

     UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
          FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

TOTAL TERMINALS                                     No. 23-179
INTERNATIONAL, LLC; SIGNAL
MUTUAL INDEMNITY                                BRB No. 21-0319
ASSOCIATION, LTD,
                                                     OPINION
               Petitioners,
    v.

DIRECTOR, OFFICE OF
WORKER’S COMPENSATION
PROGRAMS; ROBERT TOWER,

               Respondents.

          On Petition for Review of an Order of the
                   Benefits Review Board
             Argued and Submitted May 15, 2024
                  San Francisco, California
                     Filed October 11, 2024

     Before: Kenneth K. Lee and Daniel A. Bress, Circuit
       Judges, and Gloria M. Navarro, District Judge. *

                     Opinion by Judge Bress

*
 The Honorable Gloria M. Navarro, United States District Judge for the
District of Nevada, sitting by designation.
2     TOTAL TERMINALS INT’L V. DIR., OFFICE OF WORKER’S COMP.


                          SUMMARY **


     Longshore and Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act

    The panel granted Total Terminals International, LLC’s
petition for review of a Benefits Review Board decision that
longshoreman Robert Tower, who had hearing loss in one
ear and bilateral tinnitus (ear ringing), was entitled to
compensation under the Longshore and Harbor Workers’
Compensation Act for work-related hearing loss in both
ears.
    The panel rejected the argument of the Director, Office
of Worker’s Compensation Programs, that this court lacked
jurisdiction because the Board’s order remanding this case
to an administrative law judge was not final. Although a
remand order is not ordinarily final and appealable, this
general rule does not apply when only a ministerial act
remains to be completed by the ALJ on remand. Here, the
ministerial act exception applies because the Board’s order
is final for all practical purposes; the ALJ’s only task on
remand is to enter an award based on the mechanical
requirements of the statute, as the Board interpreted it.
    Turning to the merits, the panel held that an injured
longshoreman who has hearing loss in only one ear but
bilateral tinnitus is properly compensated at the statutory rate
for hearing loss in one ear, 33 U.S.C. § 908(c)(13)(A), rather
than hearing loss in both ears. The Longshore Act does not
permit monaural hearing loss to be compensated under 33


**
  This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
   TOTAL TERMINALS INT’L V. DIR., OFFICE OF WORKER’S COMP.   3


U.S.C. § 908(c)(13)(B) for bilateral hearing loss, even when
the claimant also has tinnitus.
    The panel vacated the Board’s decision and remanded
for further proceedings. The panel expressed no view on
whether tinnitus may be compensated under 33 U.S.C.
§ 908(c)(21), the catch-all provision for “all other cases.”



                        COUNSEL

Scott E. Holleman (argued), Bauer Moynihan & Johnson
LLP, Seattle, Washington, for Petitioners.
Olgamaris Fernandez (argued), Senior Attorney; Mark A.
Reinhalter, Counsel for Longshore; Michael P. Doyle,
Counsel for Appellate Litigation; Jennifer F. Jones, Deputy
Associate Solicitor; Barry H. Joyner, Associate Solicitor;
Seema Nanda, Solicitor of Labor; United States Department
of Labor, Washington, D.C.; Amie C. Peters (argued) and
Amanda E. Peters, Blue Water Legal PLLC, Edmonds,
Washington; for Respondents.
4   TOTAL TERMINALS INT’L V. DIR., OFFICE OF WORKER’S COMP.


                         OPINION

BRESS, Circuit Judge:

    The Longshore and Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act
compensates injured longshoremen at different rates
depending on whether they have work-related hearing loss
in one or two ears. The novel question we consider is
whether an injured longshoreman who has loss of hearing in
only one ear but bilateral tinnitus (ear ringing) should
receive compensation at the statutory rate for hearing loss in
both ears. We conclude that an injured longshoreman who
has hearing loss in only one ear and who has tinnitus is
properly compensated at the statutory rate for hearing loss in
one ear. We grant the petition for review of the Benefit
Review Board’s contrary decision.
                               I
                              A
    The Longshore and Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act,
33 U.S.C. § 901 et seq., “establishes a comprehensive
federal workers’ compensation program that provides
longshoremen and their families with medical, disability,
and survivor benefits for work-related injuries and death.”
Howlett v. Birkdale Shipping Co., S.A., 512 U.S. 92, 96
(1994). Among its purposes “is to compensate employees
(or their beneficiaries) for wage-earning capacity lost
because of injury.” Metro. Stevedore Co. v. Rambo, 515
U.S. 291, 298 (1995).
    For permanent partial disabilities, the Longshore Act
sets out two ways of calculating the disability benefits that
an injured longshoreman is due. The first relies on a pre-set
compensation schedule for certain injuries. For that
    TOTAL TERMINALS INT’L V. DIR., OFFICE OF WORKER’S COMP.   5


“specified list of injuries,” the statute “provides a neat and
relatively undisputable calculus for assessing lost earning
capacity: a predetermined number of weeks’ compensation
based on two-thirds of the claimant’s average weekly wages
prior to the injury.” Johnston v. Dir., Off. of Workers Comp.
Programs, 280 F.3d 1272, 1274 (9th Cir. 2002) (citing 33
U.S.C. § 908(c)(1)–(20)).           Thus, for example, a
longshoreman who loses an arm receives three hundred and
twelve weeks’ compensation at two-thirds average weekly
pay, while one who loses a “great toe” receives thirty-eight
weeks’ compensation. 33 U.S.C. § 908(c)(1), (8).
    The statute also contains a “catch-all” for “other cases.”
Id. § 908(c)(21) (“Other cases: In all other cases in the class
of disability, the compensation shall be 66 2/3 per centum of
the difference between the average weekly wages of the
employee and the employee’s wage-earning capacity
thereafter in the same employment or otherwise, payable
during the continuance of partial disability.”). This
provision applies to “all other, non-scheduled permanent
partial disabilities,” and “contemplates a more nuanced
compensation formula based on the claimant’s actual wage-
earning capacity after the injury.” Johnston, 280 F.3d at
1274.
    We are concerned here with the statutory rules for
hearing loss. “Loss of hearing” is one of the scheduled
disabilities that the Longshore Act compensates using the
“neat calculus” of § 908(c). See 33 U.S.C. § 908(c)(13);
Johnston, 280 F.3d at 1274. Importantly, compensation for
hearing loss is calculated differently depending on whether
the claimant has hearing loss in one or both ears. See 33
U.S.C. § 908(c)(13)(A)–(B). For “loss of hearing in one
ear,” also known as “monaural” hearing loss, the Act entitles
claimants to two-thirds of their average weekly wage for 52
6   TOTAL TERMINALS INT’L V. DIR., OFFICE OF WORKER’S COMP.


weeks. Id. § 908(c)(13)(A). For “loss of hearing in both
ears,” or “binaural” hearing loss, claimants may recover two-
thirds of their average weekly wage for 200 weeks. Id.
§ 908(c)(13)(B). Thus, binaural hearing loss is compensated
at nearly four times the rate as monaural hearing loss. In
either case, however, when hearing loss is partial, the
compensation is proportional to the degree of the loss. See
id. § 908(c)(19). Thus, a Longshore Act claimant’s
compensation for loss of hearing is calculated by multiplying
together (1) two-thirds of the claimant’s average weekly
wage; (2) the number of weeks’ pay prescribed by the statute
(52 weeks for monaural loss or 200 weeks for binaural loss);
and (3) the degree of the claimant’s monaural or binaural
hearing loss, as measured by a methodology that we explain
next.
    The Longshore Act provides that “[d]eterminations of
loss of hearing shall be made in accordance with the guides
for the evaluation of permanent impairment as promulgated
and modified from time to time by the American Medical
Association [(AMA)].” Id. § 908(c)(13)(E); see also 20
C.F.R. § 702.441(d) (requiring use of the most current
edition of the guides). These guides, known as the “AMA
Guides,” prescribe a multi-step process for assessing a
claimant’s hearing loss. First, the medical provider tests
each ear separately at the 500, 1000, 2000, and 3000 hertz
(Hz) frequencies, recording for every frequency the decibel
(dB) level at which the claimant can first register sound.
Next, the provider sums those four decibel levels separately
as to each ear, treating negative values as zero and all values
over 100 as 100. Finally, the provider consults a “Monaural
Hearing Loss and Impairment” table that converts the
summed decibel level, or hearing level, into a percentage
hearing loss for that ear.
    TOTAL TERMINALS INT’L V. DIR., OFFICE OF WORKER’S COMP.    7


     As the table reflects, if the summed hearing level is 100
or less (meaning that the “average of the hearing levels at
500, 1000, 2000, and 3000 Hz is 25 dB or less”), “no
impairment rating is assigned [for that ear] since there is no
change in the ability to hear everyday sounds under everyday
listening conditions.” Put another way, there is no “ratable”
hearing loss in that ear—and thus no hearing loss that is
compensable under the Longshore Act—even if the ear
exhibits some degree of hearing reduction. If a claimant has
ratable hearing loss in two ears, it is then necessary to consult
the Guides to calculate the claimant’s binaural hearing loss.
That figure is computed by consulting a formula and an
accompanying table, which takes as inputs the separate
percentage hearing losses in each of the claimant’s ears.
    Critically for this case, and ostensibly because hearing is
a bilateral function, the AMA Guides direct, using a formula
and accompanying table, that a monaural hearing loss be
converted into a “binaural hearing impairment.” By the
nature of the formula, converting a monaural hearing loss
into a binaural impairment always results in a lower value.
As we explained above, a binaural hearing loss enjoys
compensation at nearly four times the pay period as
compared to a monaural hearing loss (200 weeks versus 52
weeks). 33 U.S.C. § 908(c)(13)(A)–(B). But given the
Guides’ conversion formula, a monaural to binaural
conversion will always lead to reduced compensation if the
converted amount is treated as compensable under
§ 908(c)(13)(B).
    Some decades ago, the question arose as to how the
AMA Guides’ monaural-to-binaural conversion process
should interact with the award of benefits for claimants who
experience hearing loss in only one ear. That is, if a claimant
has hearing loss in only one ear, should he be compensated
8   TOTAL TERMINALS INT’L V. DIR., OFFICE OF WORKER’S COMP.


at the statutory rate for hearing loss in one ear, or should he
be compensated based on the (lower) converted amount for
a binaural hearing impairment? Employers naturally sought
the latter, but courts uniformly rejected that position. See
Rasmussen v. Gen. Dynamics Corp., Elec. Boat Div., 993
F.2d 1014, 1016–17 (2d Cir. 1993); Baker v. Bethlehem Steel
Corp., 24 F.3d 632, 634 (4th Cir. 1994); Tanner v. Ingalls
Shipbuilding, Inc., 2 F.3d 143, 146 (5th Cir. 1993).
    As the Second Circuit explained, compensating based on
the converted binaural figure was “untenable” because
“[a]lthough the AMA Guides recommend that monaural loss
be converted to binaural loss, . . . this suggestion does not
override the explicit statutory subsection providing benefits
for victims of monaural hearing loss.” Rasmussen, 993 F.2d
at 106–17. The Benefits Review Board eventually came
around to this same position. It now treats as “well-settled”
that claimants with ratable hearing loss in only one ear may
not receive compensation under § 908(c)(13)(B) for hearing
loss in two ears based on the Guides’ method for converting
a monaural hearing loss into a binaural impairment. J.T. v.
Global Int’l Offshore, Ltd., Nos. 08-0119 & 08-0119A, 2009
WL 2358304, at *10 (Ben. Rev. Bd. 2009). 1



1
 The Guides also offer one further conversion step, which is to calculate
“the impairment of the whole person” from his binaural impairment.
This can be done by consulting a third table in the Guides. But the
Benefits Review Board has squarely rejected the use of the “whole
person” impairment standard for purposes of Longshore Act
compensation, deeming it contrary to “the plain language of the statute,
which clearly contemplates using the AMA Guides in evaluating the
degree of hearing loss shown by audiogram and compensating claimant
accordingly.” Cutting v. Gen. Dynamics Corp., No. 85-931, 1988 WL
232749, at *2 (Ben. Rev. Bd. 1988).
    TOTAL TERMINALS INT’L V. DIR., OFFICE OF WORKER’S COMP.    9


    Finally, the AMA Guides also address circumstances in
which a claimant suffers from tinnitus, which the Guides
define as “perceived sounds that originate within a person,
rather than in the outside world.” Although these sounds
vary, they commonly include ringing and buzzing.
According to the Guides, “tinnitus is not a disease but rather
is a symptom that may be the result of a disease or injury.”
The Guides acknowledge that the effects of tinnitus are
difficult to assess because tinnitus “is primarily a subjective
phenomenon” and “[t]here is currently no way to
scientifically evaluate” it. The Guides explain that “it is
frequently difficult to verify even the presence of tinnitus, let
alone its consequences.” Nonetheless, and critically here,
the Guides provide that, “if the tinnitus interferes with [a
claimant’s activities of daily living], including sleep, reading
(and other tasks requiring concentration), enjoyment of quiet
recreation, and emotional well-being, up to 5% may be
added to a measurable binaural hearing impairment.”
(Emphasis added).
                               B
    For thirteen years, Robert Tower worked at the Port of
Seattle as a senior operations manager for Total Terminals
International, LLC (TTI), a global shipping company.
Tower’s job involved frequent exposure to loud marine
operations.
    On June 12, 2019, Tower underwent an audiogram to
evaluate his hearing. Applying the AMA Guides’ testing
formula, Tower’s otolaryngologist, Dr. Alan Langman,
diagnosed Tower with a 0% right monaural hearing loss and
a 9.375% left monaural hearing loss. Based on the Guides’
monaural to binaural conversion table, Dr. Langman
10 TOTAL TERMINALS INT’L V. DIR., OFFICE OF WORKER’S COMP.


combined those figures to derive a 1.56% binaural hearing
loss rating. 2
    In addition, based on Tower’s complaint of a “bilateral
constant high pitch whine,” Dr. Langman diagnosed Tower
with bilateral tinnitus. Based on the Guides’ instruction to
add up to 5% for tinnitus to the binaural hearing impairment
value, Dr. Langman added 2% to Tower’s converted
binaural impairment rating, for a total of 3.56%. Based on
Tower’s subsequent report that he requires Ambien to sleep
through the whining noise, Dr. Langman upgraded Tower’s
tinnitus impairment rating to 4%, for a total (converted)
binaural impairment rating of 5.56%.
    In making this adjustment, Dr. Langman acknowledged
that the Guides require tinnitus to be “added to a measurable
binaural hearing impairment.” But Dr. Langman did not
believe this “require[d] tinnitus ratings to only be assessed
when there is a ratable binaural impairment,” because
“[u]nder the Guides, a monaural rating can be translated to a
binaural percentage.” (Emphasis added). In other words,
Tower had ratable hearing loss in only one ear; Dr. Langman
converted that monaural loss value to a binaural one; and he
then added the tinnitus adjustment to that value.
                                   C
   On July 11, 2019, Tower filed a claim with the
Department of Labor, seeking compensation under the
Longshore Act for hearing loss due to occupational noise

2
  Despite the 0% measurable hearing loss in Tower’s right ear, Dr.
Langman concluded that Tower still had decreased hearing in that ear
and so required bilateral hearing aids. But because his right ear hearing
impairment was not significant enough to be measurable under the AMA
Guides, Tower only had a ratable—and thus compensable—hearing loss
in his left ear.
   TOTAL TERMINALS INT’L V. DIR., OFFICE OF WORKER’S COMP. 11


exposure. TTI and its insurer, Signal Mutual Indemnity
Association, Ltd., (collectively, “TTI”) awarded Tower
$7,364.96 under § 908(c)(13)(A). It did so based on the
9.375% loss of hearing in his left ear (52 weeks x 9.375%
monaural hearing loss = 4.875 weeks; 4.875 weeks x
$1,510.76 compensation per week = $7,364.96). Tower, for
his part, sought $16,799.65 in benefits under
§ 908(c)(13)(B) based on Dr. Langman’s overall 5.56%
converted binaural impairment rating, which included the
tinnitus bump-up. TTI responded that because Tower did
“not have a measurable binaural hearing loss,” he was only
entitled to compensation for hearing loss in one ear under
§ 908(c)(13)(A).
     An Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) ruled for TTI. The
ALJ relied on the Benefit Review Board and circuit court
precedent we discussed above, which generally holds that “a
monoaural impairment should not be converted to a binaural
impairment for purposes of awarding compensation under
the Act.” Because Tower had ratable hearing loss in only his
left ear, he was “not entitled to additional compensation for
tinnitus under [§ 908(c)(13)(B)].”
    Tower, joined by the Director of the Office of Workers’
Compensation Programs, appealed to a three-judge panel of
the Benefits Review Board, which vacated the ALJ’s
decision over a dissent. The Board first clarified that
because the Guides “unambiguously incorporate[] bilateral
tinnitus impairment by adding it to a binaural hearing loss
rating,” benefits for tinnitus-related impairment must be
awarded under § 908(c)(13)—the specific provision of the
Longshore Act pertaining to loss of hearing. That meant that
benefits for tinnitus were not to be awarded under
§ 908(c)(21), the catch-all provision encompassing
unscheduled injuries.
12 TOTAL TERMINALS INT’L V. DIR., OFFICE OF WORKER’S COMP.


    The Board next held that under § 908(c)(13), a claimant
does “not need to have measurable hearing loss in both ears
to be entitled to compensation for tinnitus.” (Emphasis
added). Instead, per the Guides, a claimant only needs to
have a “measurable binaural impairment,” which, in cases of
tinnitus, should be calculated using the monaural-to-binaural
conversion formula that the Guides prescribe, and then
adjusted by up to 5%. (Emphasis added). The Board
reasoned that this monaural-to-binaural conversion is
necessary when tinnitus is present because it is “the only way
for a claimant with a monaural hearing loss to be
compensated for the related effects of his tinnitus,” which
can only be assessed atop a binaural measurement.
“Therefore,” the Board concluded, “when tinnitus affecting
both ears is a factor in a claimant’s work-related hearing
loss, benefits under the current AMA Guides are to be
awarded under Section [908(c)(13)(B)], even if there is
measurable hearing loss in only one ear.”
    The Board acknowledged that prior Board and federal
court decisions not involving tinnitus had rejected the notion
of converting a monaural loss to a binaural figure and then
awarding compensation under § 908(c)(13)(B). But the
Board found those cases inapplicable to claimants with
tinnitus. The Board accordingly “remand[ed] the case to the
ALJ for further consideration and an award of benefits
consistent with [its] opinion.”
    Judge Boggs dissented from the Board’s decision.
Emphasizing that Towers’s “monaural hearing impairment
is an undisputed fact,” Judge Boggs reasoned that the text of
the Longshore Act and the various precedents interpreting it
required the Board to award compensation for monaural
hearing loss under § 908(c)(13)(A). In her view, “[t]he
AMA Guides’ conversion of monaural to binaural hearing
   TOTAL TERMINALS INT’L V. DIR., OFFICE OF WORKER’S COMP. 13


loss is no more compelling now as a basis for making
payment under the binaural portion of the statute than it was
thirty years ago,” and “the AMA Guides cannot trump the
clear language manifesting the determination of Congress.”
    TTI moved for reconsideration of the Board’s decision
and en banc review, which the Board denied. TTI then
petitioned for review in this court. We have jurisdiction
under 33 U.S.C. § 921(c). We “review the Benefit Review
Board’s interpretation of the Longshore Act de novo.”
Pedroza v. BRB, 624 F.3d 926, 930 (9th Cir. 2010). To the
extent the Director’s interpretation of the Longshore Act
merits respect, see Price v. Stevedoring Servs. of Am., Inc.,
697 F.3d 820, 832 (9th Cir. 2012) (en banc) (citing Skidmore
v. Swift & Co., 323 U.S. 134, 140 (1944)), this does not
change our result because we conclude that the Director and
Board’s interpretation of the Longshore Act is legally
flawed.
                              II
    Before turning to that issue, we first address the
Director’s argument that we lack jurisdiction over TTI’s
petition for review because the Board’s order “remand[ing]
the case to the ALJ for further consideration and an award of
benefits consistent with [its] opinion” is not final. See Bish
v. Brady-Hamilton Stevedore Co., 880 F.2d 1135, 1137 (9th
Cir. 1989) (“We have appellate jurisdiction to review an
order of the Board only if the order is final.” (citing 33
U.S.C. § 921(c))). Although the Director maintains that the
Board’s order is not final, both Tower and TTI agree that it
is. Nevertheless, we must determine the matter for
ourselves.
   An order by the Benefits Review Board is final and
appealable under the Longshore Act if it “ends the litigation
14 TOTAL TERMINALS INT’L V. DIR., OFFICE OF WORKER’S COMP.


on the merits and leaves nothing for the [ALJ] to do but
execute the judgment.” Bish, 880 F.2d at 1137 (quoting
Catlin v. United States, 324 U.S. 229, 233 (1945)). We have
thus held that a remand order is “ordinarily not final and
appealable.” Id. In Bish, for instance, we declined to review
the Benefit Review Board’s order “vacating the [ALJ’s]
order denying modification of Bish’s disability
compensation award and remanding for reconsideration in
light of a new legal standard.” Id. at 1136. Because the order
did not resolve the merits of the claimant’s case, it failed to
satisfy “the finality requirement of 33 U.S.C. § 921(c).” Id.
at 1138. But our general rule against reviewing remand
orders does not apply when “only a ministerial act remains”
to be completed by the ALJ on remand. Nat’l Steel &
Shipbuilding Co. v. Dir., Off. of Workers’ Comp. Programs,
626 F.2d 106, 108 (9th Cir. 1980) (“McGregor I”). In that
circumstance, the “practical effect” of the remand order is
final, enabling immediate review by this court. Id.
     The “ministerial act” exception to the finality
requirement applies here, because the Board’s remand order
is final for all practical purposes. Id. As the Board noted in
its decision, “[t]he facts in this case are undisputed; the
question is how to apply the statutory framework to the
facts.” And the Board went on to answer that question in
full, holding that the ALJ should have (1) converted Tower’s
monaural hearing loss rating to a binaural one, (2) added an
additional impairment for tinnitus, and (3) compensated
Tower for hearing loss in both ears under § 908(c)(13)(B).
Thus, under the Board’s order, the ALJ’s only task on
remand is to enter an award based on the mechanical
requirements of the statute, as the Board interpreted it.
    Because “[b]oth liability and the extent of damage have
[already] been determined” by the Board, the ALJ’s
   TOTAL TERMINALS INT’L V. DIR., OFFICE OF WORKER’S COMP. 15


remaining tasks qualify as “purely ministerial act[s].” Nat’l
Steel & Shipbuilding Co. v. Dir., Off. of Workers’ Comp.
Programs, U.S. Dep’t of Lab., 703 F.2d 417, 418 (9th Cir.
1983) (“McGregor II”). We therefore conclude that the
ALJ’s pro forma compensation calculation is not a
“prerequisite for judicial review.” Id.
   Assured of our jurisdiction, we turn to the merits of
TTI’s petition.
                             III
    The Longshore Act requires that “[d]eterminations of
loss of hearing shall be made in accordance with the [AMA
Guides].” 33 U.S.C. § 908(c)(13)(E). But as this case
reflects, the Longshore Act is not compatible with the AMA
Guides in every respect. Before drilling further, we recap
the specific incompatibility that we confront today.
    The Longshore Act directs that “loss of hearing in one
ear” is to be compensated at a different rate than “loss of
hearing in both ears.” Id. § 908(c)(13)(A–B). But the AMA
Guides direct that monaural hearing losses be converted to
binaural ones as a matter of course. See Rasmussen, 993
F.2d at 1017. The Guides also indicate that tinnitus should
be included in a measure of hearing impairment, but they
only contemplate that tinnitus adjustments be added to a
“measurable binaural impairment.” According to the Board,
the upshot is that because the monaural-to-binaural
conversion formula is part of the Guides, a claimant who has
lost hearing in only one ear and who has tinnitus must
receive benefits under § 908(c)(13)(B), which pertains to
hearing loss in both ears. The Board appears to have reached
this conclusion in part by reasoning backwards from the
premise that this would be “the only way for a claimant with
16 TOTAL TERMINALS INT’L V. DIR., OFFICE OF WORKER’S COMP.


a monaural hearing loss to be compensated for the related
effects of his tinnitus.”
    For purposes of this decision, we assume that the AMA
Guides themselves do not pose a bar to the approach the
Board endorsed. That is, we accept as true the Board’s
conclusion that the Guides permit an increase for tinnitus
when the claimant has ratable hearing loss in only one ear,
and that they do not condition the tinnitus adjustment on the
presence of ratable hearing loss in both ears. But this does
not end our inquiry. For the reasons we now explain, the
Board’s overarching reasoning is irreconcilable with the
plain text of the Longshore Act and longstanding precedent
interpreting it. We hold that the Longshore Act does not
permit monaural hearing losses to be compensated under
§ 908(c)(13)(B), even when the claimant also has tinnitus.
    As we have already discussed, when tinnitus is not in
play, the Board considers it “well-settled” that employers
may not convert monaural hearing losses into binaural ones
only to then award what would be, in that situation, lower
amounts under § 908(c)(13)(B). J.T., 2009 WL 2358304, at
*10. Every circuit to have considered this question in the
non-tinnitus context agrees: The Guides’ monaural to
binaural conversion process does not “override” the Act’s
distinction between monaural and binaural hearing loss.
Rasmussen, 993 F.2d at 1017; see also Baker, 24 F.3d at 634;
Tanner, 2 F.3d at 146. In other words, “[i]f a claimant has a
monaural impairment rating under the AMA Guides of 0
percent in the better ear, she has a ‘loss of hearing’ within
the meaning of [§ 908(c)(13)] in only one ear and is to be
compensated accordingly under [§ 908(c)(13)(A)].”
Rasmussen, 993 F.2d at 1017.
   TOTAL TERMINALS INT’L V. DIR., OFFICE OF WORKER’S COMP. 17


    The reason is that the Guides merely “provide
the methods employed under the Act for measuring hearing
loss, whether monaural or binaural.” Baker, 24 F.3d at 634
(quoting Garner v. Newport News Shipbuilding & Dry Dock
Co., 955 F.2d 41 (4th Cir. 1992) (unpublished)). It is
ultimately the Longshore Act itself that “determine[s] how
this loss should be compensated.” Tanner, 2 F.3d at 146.
And the statute is clear that monaural and binaural hearing
losses are to be compensated differently. See 33 U.S.C.
§ 908(c)(13)(A)–(B). We therefore join our sister circuits in
recognizing that monaural hearing losses must be
compensated under § 908(c)(13)(A), even though the
Guides direct that they be converted to binaural hearing
impairments. See Tanner, 2 F.3d at 146 (“[I]t was clearly
the intent of Congress that monaural impairment should be
compensated according to the specific language of
subsection (A).”).
    Despite recognizing this settled authority, the Board
deemed it wholly inapplicable to claims involving tinnitus.
The Board reasoned that “the extent of a claimant’s hearing
loss must be measured according to . . . the AMA Guides.”
And the Board further observed that the Guides
“unambiguously provide[] that in cases of bilateral tinnitus
measurable hearing loss only in one ear is converted to
bilateral hearing loss, and then an additional rating is added
for the tinnitus.” From this, the Board concluded that a
claimant with monaural hearing loss and tinnitus should
receive compensation under § 908(c)(13)(B).
    The flaw in the Board’s logic is that it assumes an
equivalence between tinnitus and hearing loss that neither
the Longshore Act nor the AMA Guides support. Again,
§ 908(c)(13) compensates for “loss of hearing.” It gives no
indication that any other ear-related injuries, conditions, or
18 TOTAL TERMINALS INT’L V. DIR., OFFICE OF WORKER’S COMP.


impairments should also be compensated under that section.
And from the outset, the Guides treat “hearing loss” and
“tinnitus” as separate concepts. In their overarching section
on “Hearing and Tinnitus,” the Guides state that while
“[h]earing . . . can be measured objectively,” “other
conditions such as . . . tinnitus that are subjective should be
noted based on the individual’s self-reports.” Indeed, even
the Benefits Review Board described Tower’s situation in a
way that distinguishes between tinnitus and hearing loss:
“Claimant has a measurable work-related hearing loss in one
ear (9.375%), non-measurable hearing loss in the other, and
tinnitus in both that affects his daily activities.”
    The AMA Guides use the broader term “hearing
impairment,” but the Longshore Act speaks in terms of “loss
of hearing.” Because tinnitus is not tantamount to a “loss of
hearing’” in the first place, it has no bearing on whether a
claimant has loss of hearing in one ear or two. Nor is there
really any suggestion otherwise in this case, in which
everyone agrees that Tower experienced ratable hearing loss
in only one ear.
    Thus, the Board’s own “well-settled” rule, J.T., 2009
WL 2358304, at *10—which we adopt today—governs this
case. “[A] monaural impairment must be compensated
under Section [908(c)(13)(A)],” and may not be
compensated “as if it were a binaural impairment” by
applying the Guides’ monaural-to-binaural conversion
formula. Id. By permitting the presence of tinnitus to alter
this longstanding framework, the Board’s decision
disregarded the statutory directive that loss of hearing in one
ear is to be compensated differently than loss of hearing in
both ears. See, e.g., Rasmussen, 993 F.2d at 1017. We
accordingly hold that when a claimant has tinnitus in
addition to ratable hearing loss in just one ear, he must
    TOTAL TERMINALS INT’L V. DIR., OFFICE OF WORKER’S COMP. 19


receive compensation for “loss of hearing” under
§ 908(c)(13)(A). Such a claimant does not receive any
additional compensation for his tinnitus by treating tinnitus
as if it were hearing loss in both ears under § 908(c)(13)(B).
    Tower and the Director object that this conclusion is
inconsistent with our duty to “construe broadly [the
Longshore Act’s] provisions so as to favor claimants in the
resolution of benefits cases.” Price, 697 F.3d at 843. But as
we have recognized, a principle of liberal construction “does
not mean that the claimant always wins,” nor does it
“provide courts the freedom to ‘add features that will
achieve the statutory “purposes more effectively.’” Martin
v. Sundial Marine Tug & Barge Works, Inc., 12 F.4th 915,
921 (9th Cir. 2021) (quoting Dir., Off. of Workers’ Comp.
Programs v. Newport News Shipbuilding & Dry Dock Co.,
514 U.S. 122, 135–36 (1995)). We do not adopt an
interpretation of the Longshore Act that automatically favors
claimants, without regard to how the text is best read.
    Nor can we construe the Act to embrace supposedly
better policy than its text reflects. In effect, Tower and the
Director are asking us to expand § 908(c)(13)(B) to include
persons with monaural hearing loss and another impairment,
in this case tinnitus, on the theory that tinnitus interferes with
the activities of daily life. But such an expansion is a task
for Congress, not the courts. We sympathize with claimants
who experience tinnitus, which can be a nuisance, a major
aggravation, or much worse. But we are powerless to disrupt
Congress’s decision to set Longshore Act compensation for
hearing loss based on whether one or both of a claimant’s
ears experience a “loss of hearing,” as opposed to any other
number of alternative schemes it might have chosen.
20 TOTAL TERMINALS INT’L V. DIR., OFFICE OF WORKER’S COMP.


    Tower and the Director’s position also leads to some
strange results. A rule requiring claimants with monaural
hearing loss and tinnitus to be compensated for their
converted binaural loss under § 908(c)(13)(B) would
actually not favor claimants in every case. Instead, given the
specific formulae involved, whether a claimant would
receive a larger or smaller award under Tower and the
Director’s preferred approach would vary from claimant to
claimant, depending on the severity of his monaural hearing
loss and his tinnitus. As the monaural hearing loss goes up
relative to the tinnitus, the benefit of the tinnitus adjustment
decreases, to the point that eventually a claimant with
monaural hearing loss and tinnitus would receive a larger
award under § 908(c)(13)(A). When claimants do not
always stand to gain, the “interpretive principle of
beneficence is . . . of little help.” Keenan v. Dir. for Benefits
Rev. Bd., 392 F.3d 1041, 1044 (9th Cir. 2004).
    In addition, and although there is no evidence of impure
motives or malingering in this case, Tower and the
Director’s position would potentially allow injured workers
to strategically claim that they have tinnitus, which is
subjective and difficult to confirm. It seems unlikely that
Congress intended to inject such uncertainty into a pre-set
compensation schedule whose hallmarks are simplicity and
verifiability, even as the rigidity of the scheme, like many
workers’ compensation regimes, may undercompensate or
overcompensate a claimant’s “true” disability in any given
case. See Potomac Elec. Power Co. v. Director, OWCP, 449
U.S. 268, 282–83 (1980).
   We grant TTI’s petition for review, vacate the Board’s
decision, and remand for further proceedings in accordance
with this opinion. Under the Longshore Act, a claimant with
monaural hearing loss and tinnitus receives compensation
   TOTAL TERMINALS INT’L V. DIR., OFFICE OF WORKER’S COMP. 21


for his “loss of hearing” under § 908(c)(13)(A), not
§ 908(c)(13)(B). We express no view on whether tinnitus
may be compensable under § 908(c)(21), the catch-all
provision for “all other cases.”
  PETITION         GRANTED;           VACATED          AND
REMANDED.
