                          PUBLISHED

UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
                FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT


DAVID E. WELCH, CPA,                    
                          Petitioner,
                 v.
ELAINE L. CHAO, SECRETARY OF
LABOR, UNITED STATES
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR,
                       Respondent,
CARDINAL BANKSHARES CORPORATION,
            Intervenor-Respondent.


GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY                      No. 07-1684
PROJECT; NATIONAL WHISTLEBLOWER
CENTER; TAXPAYERS AGAINST FRAUD,
        Amici Supporting Petitioner,
AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF BANK
DIRECTORS; VIRGINIA ASSOCIATION OF
COMMUNITY BANKS; VIRGINIA
BANKERS ASSOCIATION,
      Amici Supporting Respondent,
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION,
                    Amicus Curiae.
                                        
            On Petition for Review of an Order of the
               United States Department of Labor.
                         (2003-SOX-15)

                      Argued: May 14, 2008

                      Decided: August 5, 2008
2                          WELCH v. CHAO
    Before MOTZ, Circuit Judge, HAMILTON, Senior Circuit Judge,
    and Claude M. HILTON, Senior United States District Judge for
         the Eastern District of Virginia, sitting by designation.



Affirmed by published opinion. Judge Motz wrote the opinion, in
which Senior Judge Hamilton and Senior Judge Hilton joined.


                             COUNSEL

ARGUED: David B. Shine, Donald Franklin Mason, Jr., SHINE &
MASON, Kingsport, Tennessee, for Petitioner. Barbara Eby Racine,
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF LABOR, Washington, D.C.,
for Respondent. Joseph Michael Rainsbury, LECLAIR RYAN, PC,
Roanoke, Virginia, for Intervenor. ON BRIEF: Gregory F. Jacob,
Solicitor of Labor, Steven J. Mandel, Associate Solicitor, Ellen R.
Edmond, Counsel for Whistleblower Programs, UNITED STATES
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR, Office of the Solicitor, Washington,
D.C., for Respondent. Douglas W. Densmore, LECLAIR RYAN, PC,
Roanoke, Virginia; Betty Southard Murphy, Marc A. Antonetti,
BAKER & HOSTETLER, LLP, Washington, D.C., for Intervenor.
Paul Taylor, TAYLOR & ASSOCIATES, Burnsville, Minnesota;
Jason M. Zuckerman, THE EMPLOYMENT LAW GROUP, PC,
Washington, D.C., for The Government Accountability Project, The
National Whistleblower Center, and Taxpayers Against Fraud, Amici
Supporting Petitioner. Arthur P. Strickland, Roanoke, Virginia, for
American Association of Bank Directors, Amicus Supporting
Respondent. A. Peter Brodell, WILLIAMS MULLEN, PC, Rich-
mond, Virginia; Joseph E. Spruill, III, VIRGINIA BANKERS ASSO-
CIATION, Glen Allen, Virginia, for Virginia Bankers Association
and Virginia Association of Community Banks, Amici Supporting
Respondent. Brian G. Cartwright, General Counsel, Andrew N. Voll-
mer, Deputy General Counsel, Jacob H. Stillman, Solicitor, Mark
Pennington, Assistant General Counsel, SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION, Washington, D.C., for Securities and
Exchange Commission, Amicus Curiae.
                            WELCH v. CHAO                             3
                              OPINION

DIANA GRIBBON MOTZ, Circuit Judge:

  David E. Welch appeals a final order of the Administrative Review
Board (ARB) finding that his discharge by Cardinal Bankshares Cor-
poration did not violate the whistleblower protection provision of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act. For the reasons set forth within, we affirm.

                                   I.

   Cardinal Bankshares Corporation is a bank holding company with
its common stock listed on the NASDAQ Bulletin Board. As of
December 31, 2001, Cardinal had outstanding over 1.5 million shares
of common stock, held by approximately 600 stockholders of record.
Cardinal is the sole owner of a single financial institution, the Bank
of Floyd. Cardinal and the Bank of Floyd share a Board of Directors
and managing officers, and Ronald Leon Moore serves as the Chief
Executive Officer of both entities. Hereinafter, we refer to the Bank
of Floyd and Cardinal interchangeably as "Cardinal."

   Welch, the petitioner in this case, is licensed as a certified public
accountant in Virginia and holds a bachelor’s and a master’s degree
in business administration. Welch began working for Cardinal in 1999
as a part-time accounting officer, and, in 2000, Moore hired Welch
as Cardinal’s Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Welch’s responsibilities
as CFO of Cardinal included preparing and reviewing entries on Car-
dinal’s general ledger accounts; devising and implementing account-
ing procedures; and preparing various reports and financial
statements, including the 10-QSB quarterly reports and 10-K annual
reports that Cardinal is required to submit to the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC), see 15 U.S.C. §§ 78l-78m (2000).

   Welch came to believe that Cardinal’s accounting practices were
seriously deficient in several respects. According to Welch, Moore
and others who lacked accounting expertise routinely made entries in
Cardinal’s general ledger; Welch asserts that this practice itself vio-
lated generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). He also con-
tends that this practice resulted in ledger entries that violated GAAP.
4                           WELCH v. CHAO
   Most notably, on one specific occasion, Cardinal recovered two
loans that it had previously written off, expecting that they would not
be recouped. Cardinal recorded the unexpected recovery of these
written-off loans, totaling $195,000, as income; Welch maintains that
GAAP does not permit such recovered loans to be reported as income
and instead requires that they be listed on a company’s loan reserve
account. Welch attempted to change the ledger entries so that the
loans would be recorded in the loan reserve account instead of as
income, but Moore refused to authorize these changes. According to
Welch, these incorrect entries caused Cardinal to overstate its year-to-
date income by $195,000 in its 2001 third-quarter 10-QSB report to
the SEC. Larrowe & Co., PLC, Cardinal’s independent auditor, even-
tually corrected these entries in Cardinal’s annual report during the
2001 year-end audit, but neither Cardinal nor Larrowe & Co. ever
submitted a corrected third-quarter 10-QSB report to the SEC.

   Finally, Welch claims that Moore would often communicate
directly with Larrowe & Co. about financial matters without including
Welch. Welch alleges that by so excluding him, Moore restricted his
access to Larrowe & Co., and that this "restricted access" prevented
him from performing his tasks as CFO and prevented him from con-
firming the accuracy of Cardinal’s financial reports.

   Welch forcefully communicated his concerns about these
assertedly improper accounting practices in multiple formal memo-
randa to Moore and others immediately following the July 30, 2002,
effective date of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Pub. L. No. 107-
204, 116 Stat. 745. Welch also contends that he raised these concerns
orally with Moore and others as they arose in 2001.1

  On August 2, 2002, Welch informed Larrowe & Co. in writing that
he could not sign a representation letter to Larrowe & Co. confirming
    1
    Additionally, in October 2001, Welch sent a memorandum to Moore
advising that he had done "some research on the internet" concerning
insider trading and that "[Moore’s] personal trades and some of
[Moore’s] friends’ trades" were "questionable." Welch testified that he
later filed a complaint with the SEC accusing Moore of insider trading,
but the SEC did not take any action on the complaint. Welch does not
pursue any asserted insider trading violations on appeal.
                           WELCH v. CHAO                             5
that Cardinal provided Larrowe & Co. with accurate financial infor-
mation for the first and second quarters of 2002, because Moore and
others had made ledger entries without his supervision and because
Moore and Larrowe & Co. had excluded him from their "communica-
tions loop" on various issues.

   On August 14, 2002, Welch refused to certify Cardinal’s 2002
second-quarter 10-QSB report to the SEC, as required by the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In a memorandum explaining his refusal to cer-
tify the quarterly report, Welch claimed that he could not certify to
the accuracy of the company’s financial reports because, among other
concerns, unauthorized persons had recorded ledger entries. Welch
identified the entry as income of the $195,000 in recovered loans as
evidence of the inaccuracies he believed this practice had caused.
Moore ultimately certified Cardinal’s quarterly report himself,
because Welch refused to do so.

   On September 13, 2002, Welch submitted another formal memo-
randum to Moore, insisting that Cardinal needed to change its
accounting practices before Welch could certify the pending 2002
third-quarter 10-QSB report to the SEC. Welch again complained
about the entry of the $195,000 in recovered loans as income, this
time arguing that Cardinal needed to correct its 2001 third-quarter 10-
QSB report that listed the $195,000 as income; Welch also repeated
his complaints that Moore had excluded him from communications
with Larrowe & Co. and that unauthorized persons had made ledger
entries.

   Following this barrage of criticism, Welch’s relationship with
Moore deteriorated rapidly. On September 17, 2002, Moore called a
meeting of Cardinal’s Board of Directors to discuss Moore’s dissatis-
faction with Welch. Moore related to the Board the content of
Welch’s memoranda and his belief that Welch’s concerns were
unfounded. Moore also reported that in August 2002, state examiners
had found numerous errors in a quarterly call report that Welch had
prepared and submitted to the Federal Reserve and the Virginia State
Corporation Commission. In addition, Moore related that the examin-
ers had commented that many of the "charts, graphs, and spreadsheet
reports" prepared by Welch were "unnecessary and time-consuming."
Moore advised the Board that "the situation has deteriorated to the
6                           WELCH v. CHAO
point that Mr. Welch seems to have become disaffected and appar-
ently is unwilling or unable to do what needs to be done to comply
with the law." The Board decided to ask the Audit Committee’s legal
counsel, Douglas Densmore, and outside auditor, Michael Larrowe, to
investigate and prepare a report on Welch’s assertions, including his
claim that Cardinal needed to correct its third-quarter 2001 SEC
report because Cardinal had improperly reported the $195,000 in
recovered loans as income.

   On September 20, 2002, Welch held what he characterized as a
"Sarbanes-Oxley briefing" for senior personnel at Cardinal. During
this briefing, Welch alleged that three Cardinal employees were "par-
ties to fraudulent acts," outlined his belief that Cardinal’s accounting
practices violated the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and proposed that he leave
Cardinal quietly upon receipt of a generous severance package. Fol-
lowing the meeting, Densmore and Larrowe attempted to meet with
Welch to discuss his charges, but Welch repeatedly refused to meet
with them without his personal attorney.

   At a meeting of Cardinal’s Board of Directors on September 25,
2002, the Board voted to suspend Welch without pay pending the
results of Densmore and Larrowe’s investigation. Following his sus-
pension, the Board ordered Welch to meet with Densmore and Lar-
rowe without counsel to discuss his accusations, but Welch again
refused to meet without his attorney.

   On October 1, 2002, Densmore and Larrowe presented the results
of their investigation to the Board. They concluded that Welch’s con-
cerns regarding Cardinal’s accounting practices lacked merit. They
also concluded that Welch had seriously breached his fiduciary duty
to Cardinal by refusing to meet with them to discuss his charges, and
they recommended that Cardinal discharge him. The Board unani-
mously voted to discharge Welch, effective immediately.

   Welch then filed a complaint with the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration (OSHA), alleging that Cardinal had dismissed
him in violation of the whistleblower protection provision of § 806 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, 18 U.S.C. § 1514A (Supp. V 2005). Welch
alleged that his various communications to Cardinal constituted pro-
tected activity under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and that Cardinal fired
                           WELCH v. CHAO                             7
him because of this protected activity. Based on an investigation by
OSHA, the Secretary of Labor dismissed the complaint, finding that,
although Welch engaged in protected activity, Cardinal did not fire
him because of that activity. Rather, the Secretary found that Cardinal
fired Welch because Welch refused to meet with Densmore and Lar-
rowe without counsel, which the Secretary concluded constituted a
legitimate reason for Welch’s discharge.

   Welch appealed and requested a hearing before an administrative
law judge (ALJ). See 29 C.F.R. § 1980.106 (2007). Following the
hearing, the ALJ issued a recommended decision and order, finding
that at least three of the concerns that Welch communicated to Cardi-
nal constituted protected activity under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Spe-
cifically, the ALJ found that the Sarbanes-Oxley Act protected
Welch’s communications about: (1) Cardinal’s entry of the $195,000
in recovered loans as income; (2) Cardinal’s general practice of
allowing persons without accounting expertise to make ledger entries;
and (3) Welch’s "restricted access" to Larrowe & Co. The ALJ found
that Cardinal fired Welch because of these protected activities and
ordered him reinstated with back pay. The ALJ later issued a supple-
mental recommended decision and order, stipulating the amount of
back pay to which the judge found Welch entitled.

   Cardinal appealed the ALJ’s order to the ARB, which reversed,
finding as a matter of law that none of Welch’s communications con-
stituted protected activity under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and dismiss-
ing Welch’s complaint. Welch appeals.

                                  II.

   The Sarbanes-Oxley Act creates "whistleblower" protection for
employees of publicly-traded companies by prohibiting employers
from retaliating against employees because they provided information
about potentially unlawful conduct. Specifically, the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act provides:

    No [publicly-traded company], or any officer [or] employee
    . . . of such company, may discharge . . . an employee . . .
    because of any lawful act done by the employee —
8                           WELCH v. CHAO
       (1) to provide information . . . regarding any conduct
    which the employee reasonably believes constitutes a viola-
    tion of section 1341 [mail fraud], 1343 [wire fraud], 1344
    [bank fraud], or 1348 [securities fraud], any rule or regula-
    tion of the [SEC], or any provision of Federal law relating
    to fraud against shareholders, when the information . . . is
    provided to . . .

      . . . a person with supervisory authority over the employee
    ....

18 U.S.C. § 1514A(a); see also Livingston v. Wyeth, Inc., 520 F.3d
344, 351 (4th Cir. 2008); Allen v. Admin. Review Bd., 514 F.3d 468,
475 (5th Cir. 2008).

   The whistleblower protection provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
adopts the burden-shifting framework applicable to whistleblower
claims brought under the Wendell H. Ford Aviation Investment and
Reform Act for the 21st Century, 49 U.S.C. § 42121(b) (2000). See
18 U.S.C. § 1514A(b). Accordingly, an employee bears the initial
burden of making a prima facie showing of retaliatory discrimination;
the burden then shifts to the employer to rebut the employee’s prima
facie case by demonstrating by clear and convincing evidence that the
employer would have taken the same personnel action in the absence
of the protected activity. 49 U.S.C. § 42121(b)(2)(B).

   The Department of Labor (DOL) regulations implementing
§ 1514A provide that in order to make a prima facie showing, an
employee’s complaint must allege that: (1) the employee engaged in
protected activity; (2) the employer knew, actually or constructively,
of the protected activity; (3) the employee suffered an unfavorable
personnel action; and (4) the circumstances raise an inference that the
protected activity was a contributing factor in the personnel action. 29
C.F.R. § 1980.104(b)(1) (2007).

   To satisfy the first element and establish that he engaged in pro-
tected activity, an employee must show that he had both "a subjective
belief and an objectively reasonable belief" that the conduct he com-
plained of constituted a violation of relevant law. Livingston, 520
F.3d at 352. Additionally, an employee must show that his communi-
                            WELCH v. CHAO                               9
cations to his employer "definitively and specifically relate[d]" to one
of the laws listed in § 1514A. Platone v. FLYi, Inc., ARB Case No.
04-154, slip op. at 17 (ARB Sept. 29, 2006) (internal quotation marks
omitted). The ARB held that Welch failed to make out a prima facie
case because he did not establish that he had engaged in protected
activity; the ARB did not make any determination as to the other three
elements necessary for a prima facie case.

   Under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A)
(2006) — which governs our review here, see 49 U.S.C. §
42121(b)(4)(A) — we may only disturb the ARB’s decision if it was
"arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in
accordance with law." We review questions of law de novo, giving
deference to the ARB’s interpretation of § 1514A. See Chevron
U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Res. Def. Council, Inc., 476 U.S. 837, 843-44
(1984).2 On questions of fact, we will uphold the ARB’s findings if
supported by substantial evidence. See Knox v. U.S. Dep’t of Labor,
434 F.3d 721, 723-24 (4th Cir. 2006).

                                   III.

   Before turning to the central dispute here — whether the ARB
erred in holding that Welch had failed to establish that his communi-
cations constituted protected activity under § 1514A — we briefly
address contentions made by the parties as to the standard for estab-
lishing protected activity.
  2
   The Supreme Court has recognized that Chevron deference is appro-
priate when it appears from the "statutory circumstances that Congress
would expect the agency to be able to speak with the force of law."
United States v. Mead Corp., 533 U.S. 218, 229 (2001). The Court has
instructed that "[i]t is fair to assume generally that Congress contem-
plates administrative action with the effect of law when it provides for
a relatively formal administrative procedure" such as formal adjudica-
tion. Id. at 230 & n.12. Congress explicitly delegated to the Secretary of
Labor authority to enforce § 1514A by formal adjudication, see 18
U.S.C. § 1514A(b), and the Secretary has delegated her enforcement
authority to the ARB, see 67 Fed. Reg. 64,272, 64,273 (Oct. 17, 2002).
Thus, we afford deference to the ARB’s interpretation of § 1514A of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Welch does not argue to the contrary.
10                          WELCH v. CHAO
   Cardinal initially argues that Livingston holds that the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act only protects communications relating to material viola-
tions of a listed law. As Cardinal itself concedes, however, in Living-
ston, we merely noted that a statement or omission must concern a
material fact to violate § 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act and
SEC Rule 10b-5. 520 F.3d at 355. Although many of the laws listed
in § 1514A of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act contain materiality require-
ments, nothing in § 1514A (nor in Livingston) indicates that § 1514A
contains an independent materiality requirement.3

   The parties’ remaining contentions involve the ARB’s interpreta-
tion of § 1514A to require that an employee’s communications to his
employer "definitively and specifically relate" to one of the listed
laws for these communications to constitute protected activity. See,
e.g., Platone, ARB Case No. 04-154, slip op. at 17 (internal quotation
marks omitted). This requirement ensures that an employee’s commu-
nications to his employer are factually specific. An employee need
not "cite a code section he believes was violated" in his communica-
tions to his employer, but the employee’s communications must iden-
tify the specific conduct that the employee believes to be illegal.
Fraser v. Fiduciary Trust Co. Int’l, 417 F. Supp. 2d 310, 322
(S.D.N.Y. 2006); see also Bechtel Constr. Co. v. Sec’y of Labor, 50
F.3d 926, 931 (11th Cir. 1995) (considering standard for protected
activity under the whistleblower provisions of the Energy Reorganiza-
tion Act, 42 U.S.C. § 5851). "[G]eneral inquiries do not constitute
protected activity." Fraser, 417 F. Supp. 2d at 322 (internal quotation
marks, omissions, and citations omitted).
  3
    Relying on dicta in Livingston, 520 F.3d at 351 & n.1, Cardinal also
contends that § 1514A only protects communications concerning viola-
tions of SEC rules or regulations that "relate to fraud" and that the
asserted violations raised by Welch do "not relate to fraud." Welch
counters that we did not so hold in Livingston, and would not so hold
now if squarely presented with the question, see, e.g., O’Mahony v.
Accenture Ltd., 537 F. Supp. 2d 506, 516-17 (S.D.N.Y. 2008), and that
in any event his communications do relate to fraud. We need not resolve
this question here, however, because, as discussed below, Welch failed
to explain to the ARB how he could have had an objectively reasonable
belief that Cardinal violated any potentially relevant law, whether or not
it related to fraud.
                            WELCH v. CHAO                              11
   Welch maintains that by requiring his communications to "defini-
tively and specifically relate" to a listed law, the ARB has interpreted
§ 1514A to require that an employee complain of an actual violation
of a listed law in order to engage in protected activity, and that such
a requirement contradicts the text of the statute, which provides that
an employee who complains of conduct that he "reasonably believes"
violates a listed law engages in protected activity. 18 U.S.C.
§ 1514A(a)(1). We agree that such a requirement would contradict the
text of § 1514A, but the "definitively and specifically" language does
not in fact require that an employee complain of an actual violation.
Indeed, the ARB has squarely held that § 1514A protects an employ-
ee’s communications based on a reasonable, but mistaken, belief that
conduct constitutes a securities violation. See Halloum v. Intel Corp.,
ARB Case No. 04-068, slip op. at 6 (ARB Jan. 31, 2006); accord
Allen, 514 F.3d at 477.

   Cardinal also misreads the "definitively and specifically" language,
though in a different manner. Cardinal contends that the "definitively
and specifically" language imposes a heightened pleading standard in
Sarbanes-Oxley whistleblower cases. The ARB, however, has held
that, for the requirement that an employee’s communications "defini-
tively and specifically relate" to a listed law, the "relevant inquiry" is
what an employee "actually communicated to [his] employer prior to
the . . . termination"; it is "not what [is] alleged in [the employee’s]
OSHA complaint." Platone, ARB Case No. 04-154, slip op. at 17
(emphasis added). Thus, contrary to Cardinal’s assertions, the "defini-
tively and specifically" language clearly does not impose a heightened
pleading standard in Sarbanes-Oxley whistleblower cases.

   Accordingly, we turn to the central issue in this case — whether
Welch established that his communications constituted activity pro-
tected by § 1514A.

                                   IV.

  The ARB held that Welch had failed to establish that any of his
communications constituted protected activity under § 1514A of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The ARB offered two rationales for its holding;
both relate to the requirement that Welch have an objectively reason-
able belief that the challenged conduct violated relevant law.
12                           WELCH v. CHAO
Although we must reject the first rationale, we find no error in the
second.

                                    A.

   The ARB initially held, as a matter of law, that Welch could not
have had an objectively reasonable belief that reporting the $195,000
in recovered loans as income violated relevant law.4 The ARB rea-
soned that even if Cardinal erroneously reported the $195,000 as
income instead of recording it in the loan reserve account, the errone-
ous entries still showed that "Cardinal had in fact recovered $195,000
that it previously did not have," and that therefore Welch could not
have had an objectively reasonable belief that the loan entries might
mislead investors.

   The ARB suggested that the misclassification of items in a finan-
cial statement can never "present[ ] potential investors with a mislead-
ing picture of [a company’s] financial condition," so long as the
misclassification does not affect the "bottom line." We disagree. As
  4
    In order for an employee to prove that he engaged in protected activ-
ity, he must show that he possessed both a subjective belief and an objec-
tively reasonable belief that the conduct complained of constituted a
violation of relevant law. Livingston, 520 F.3d at 352; Melendez v. Exxon
Chems. Ams., ARB Case No. 96-051, slip op. at 25-29 (ARB July 14,
2000). Thus, the employee must show both that he actually believed the
conduct complained of constituted a violation of pertinent law and that
"a reasonable person in his position would have believed that the conduct
constituted a violation." Livingston, 520 F.3d at 352; accord Allen, 514
F.3d at 477.
   Welch argues that the ARB erroneously held that objective reasonable-
ness is always a question of law. We agree that the ARB would have
erred if it had so held, because objective reasonableness is a mixed ques-
tion of law and fact. But the ARB did not hold that objective reasonable-
ness is always a question of law. Rather, the ARB decided the question
of objective reasonableness as a matter of law in this case, as we did in
Jordan v. Alternative Resources Corp., 458 F.3d 332, 340-41 (4th Cir.
2006). As in Jordan, the ARB applied the familiar rule that issues may
be decided as a matter of law if the facts cannot support a verdict for the
non-moving party. Accord Livingston, 520 F.3d at 353-56; Allen, 514
F.3d at 477-78.
                            WELCH v. CHAO                             13
the SEC has explained in its amicus brief, "‘[t]he individual items,
subtotals, or other parts of a financial statement may often be more
useful than the aggregate to those who make investment, credit, and
similar decisions.’" Statement of the SEC, Amicus Curiae, in Support
of Neither Side at 3 (quoting the Financial Accounting Standards
Board, Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 5, Recogni-
tion and Measurement of Financial Statements of Business Enter-
prises 15-16, ¶ 22 (Dec. 1984)) (emphasis omitted). Thus, as the
Department of Labor now concedes, communications about misclassi-
fications in financial statements may, in some circumstances, form the
basis for a Sarbanes-Oxley whistleblower action, and the ARB erred
to the extent that it held to the contrary. Were this the only rationale
for the ARB’s holding, we would have to remand to allow the ARB
to determine whether Welch could have reasonably believed that this
misclassification violated relevant law.

                                  B.

   The ARB offered a second rationale for its dismissal of Welch’s
complaint, however. The ARB held that even if Welch’s charges
proved correct — that Cardinal reported the $195,000 as income in
violation of GAAP, that Cardinal improperly restricted Welch’s
access to Larrowe & Co., and that Moore permitted individuals with-
out expertise to make ledger entries — Welch had nonetheless failed
to explain to the ARB how he could have had an objectively reason-
able belief that these actions violated any of the laws listed in
§ 1514A.

   After the ALJ ruled in favor of Welch, Cardinal filed a petition for
review with the ARB, taking exception to the ALJ’s findings of fact
and conclusions of law, pursuant to 29 C.F.R. § 1980.110 (2007).
Cardinal specifically took issue with the ALJ’s rulings that Welch had
an objectively reasonable belief that his communications identified
violations of federal securities laws. See Resp’t’s Pet. for Review at
¶¶ 2, 4, 5 (Feb. 25, 2005). Cardinal argued that:

    The ALJ erred in finding protected activity because Welch’s
    complaints . . . did not allege conduct that constituted a vio-
    lation of, or even a reasonably perceived violation of, fed-
    eral securities laws. Conspicuously absent from the ALJ’s
14                           WELCH v. CHAO
      analysis is any explanation of how the conduct Welch com-
      plained about constituted a violation of federal securities
      laws.

Br. of Resp’t at 11, Welch v. Cardinal Bankshares Corp., ARB Case
No. 05-064 (ARB May 31, 2007). Cardinal stressed that the ALJ had
cited "no authority" to support the proposition that the identified con-
duct violated federal securities laws. Id. at 18; see also id. at 16
(asserting that Welch’s communications "did not allege a violation of
federal securities law" and that "[t]he ALJ fails to point to a single
statute, regulation, or case" in support of his holding).

   In his response before the ARB, Welch defended the ALJ’s hold-
ing, but, like the ALJ, he utterly failed to explain how Cardinal’s
alleged conduct could reasonably be regarded as violating any of the
laws listed in § 1514A. Although Welch advanced several arguments
before the ARB, he supported these arguments only with irrelevant
and inapposite authority or conclusory, general statements.5 The ARB
therefore held that Welch had failed to establish that he engaged in
protected activity. We find no error in this ruling. See, e.g., Hall v.
U.S. Dep’t of Labor, Admin. Review Bd., 476 F.3d 847, 861 n.8 (10th
Cir. 2007) (explaining that the ARB is not required to "sua sponte
raise legal theories referenced only obliquely by a party but not
clearly articulated in its briefs"); cf. Fed. R. App. P. 28(b), (a)(9)(A)
(requiring the appellee’s brief to contain an argument, which must, in
  5
    For example, before the ARB, to support his contentions regarding
the $195,000 in recovered loans in the 2001 third-quarter 10-QSB report,
Welch relied on laws and regulations passed years after the filing of that
report, as well as other regulations which clearly do not fall within the
purview of § 1514A. He also cited to general accounting standards and
the general purpose of the securities laws. He did not explain — as he
attempts to on appeal — how a person could reasonably believe that the
failure to correct the 10-QSB report might violate any relevant federal
law or applicable SEC regulation. Similarly, with regard to Cardinal’s
practice of allowing individuals without accounting expertise to make
ledger entries, before the ARB, Welch cited accounting treatises and
insisted that the practice "violat[ed] the intent of the SEC rules and regu-
lations," but he never explained how a person could have an objectively
reasonable belief that this conduct violated any of the laws listed in
§ 1514A.
                           WELCH v. CHAO                            15
turn, include "citations to the authorities and parts of the record on
which [that party] relies").

   To the extent that Welch now explains his position and cites to rel-
evant authority in his filings before this court, he attempts to raise
new arguments relying on newly identified authorities. Welch has for-
feited these new arguments by failing to raise them before the ARB.
See, e.g., Taylor v. U.S. Dep’t of Labor, 440 F.3d 1, 8-9 (1st Cir.
2005).

   Of course, we do not suggest that a whistleblower must identify
specific statutory provisions or regulations when complaining of con-
duct to an employer, nor do we address the burden upon the parties
in the proceedings before the ALJ. See 29 C.F.R. §§ 1980.103-109
(2007). We simply hold that Welch completely failed to raise any rel-
evant arguments before the ARB and may not now raise new argu-
ments before this court.

                                  V.

  For the reasons set forth above, the judgment of the Administrative
Review Board is

                                                         AFFIRMED.
