                 FOR PUBLICATION

   UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
        FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

THERESA SWEET; CHENELLE                No. 23-15049
ARCHIBALD; DANIEL DEEGAN;
SAMUEL HOOD; TRESA                    D.C. No. 3:19-cv-
APODACA; ALICIA DAVIS;                  03674-WHA
JESSICA JACOBSON, on behalf of
themselves and all others similarly
situated,                                OPINION

              Plaintiffs-Appellees,

EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.,

              Intervenor-Appellant,

 v.

MIGUEL A. CARDONA, Secretary of
the United States Department of
Education; U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
EDUCATION,

            Defendants-Appellees,
______________________________

LINCOLN EDUCATIONAL
SERVICES CORPORATION;
AMERICAN NATIONAL
2            SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


UNIVERSITY; CHICAGO SCHOOL
OF PROFESSIONAL
PSYCHOLOGY,

              Intervenors.


THERESA SWEET; CHENELLE                    No. 23-15050
ARCHIBALD; DANIEL DEEGAN;
SAMUEL HOOD; TRESA                       D.C. No. 3:19-cv-
APODACA; ALICIA DAVIS;                     03674-WHA
JESSICA JACOBSON, on behalf of
themselves and all others similarly
situated,

              Plaintiffs-Appellees,

v.


LINCOLN EDUCATIONAL
SERVICES CORPORATION,

              Intervenor-Appellant,

    v.

 MIGUEL A. CARDONA, Secretary
of the United States Department of
Education; U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
EDUCATION,

              Defendants-Appellees,
                SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.            3




------------------------------

EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.;
AMERICAN NATIONAL
UNIVERSITY; CHICAGO SCHOOL
OF PROFESSIONAL
PSYCHOLOGY,

                  Intervenors.


THERESA SWEET; CHENELLE                       No. 23-15051
ARCHIBALD; DANIEL DEEGAN;
SAMUEL HOOD; TRESA                          D.C. No. 3:19-cv-
APODACA; ALICIA DAVIS;                        03674-WHA
JESSICA JACOBSON, on behalf of
themselves and all others similarly
situated,

                  Plaintiffs-Appellees,


v.


AMERICAN NATIONAL
UNIVERSITY,

                  Intervenor-Appellant,

  v.
4               SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


 MIGUEL A. CARDONA, Secretary
of the United States Department of
Education; U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
EDUCATION,

                  Defendants-Appellees,

------------------------------

EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.;
LINCOLN EDUCATIONAL
SERVICES CORPORATION;
CHICAGO SCHOOL OF
PROFESSIONAL PSYCHOLOGY,

                  Intervenors.

         Appeal from the United States District Court
           for the Northern District of California
          William Alsup, District Judge, Presiding

          Argued and Submitted December 5, 2023
                 San Francisco, California

                     Filed November 5, 2024

Before: Daniel P. Collins, Danielle J. Forrest, and Jennifer
                  Sung, Circuit Judges.

                     Opinion by Judge Sung;
                     Dissent by Judge Collins
               SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.                   5


                          SUMMARY *


             Standing / Mootness / Intervention

     In an appeal by three intervenor for-profit university
organizations (“the Schools”) from the district court’s final
approval of a class action settlement between the United
States Department of Education (“the Department”) and a
class of over 500,000 federal student loan borrowers
(“Plaintiffs”), the panel held that (1) the Schools had Article
III standing but lacked prudential standing to challenge the
final approval of the settlement; (2) the dispute between
Plaintiffs and the Department was not moot at the time the
district court approved the settlement; and (3) the district
court did not err in denying the Schools’ motion to intervene
as of right.
    The settlement resolved Plaintiffs’ class action
complaint regarding the Department’s backlog of hundreds
of thousands of unprocessed applications for borrower
defense relief. The Schools alleged that the Department’s
inclusion of the Schools on Exhibit C, a list of schools with
strong indicia of substantial misconduct, damaged their
reputation.
    The panel held that the Schools met their burden to
establish Article III standing based on their alleged
reputational harm because the Department’s statement could
cause reputational injury that supports Article III standing
and the reputational injury was redressable by a favorable
decision. However, because the Schools were not parties to

*
 This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
6             SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


the settlement and had not shown that the settlement could
cause them formal legal prejudice, the Schools lacked
prudential standing to challenge the approval of the final
settlement.
    The panel held that the dispute between Plaintiffs and the
Department was not moot at the time the district court
approved the settlement because, even assuming that the
Department mooted Plaintiffs’ original claims by processing
many, but not all, pending applications, that action did not
moot Plaintiffs’ supplemental claims.              And the
Department’s voluntary cessation of issuing pro forma
denials of Plaintiffs’ supplemental claims did not render the
case moot where the Department could easily resume its
conduct if the case were dismissed.
    The panel held that the district court did not err in
denying the Schools’ Fed. R. Civ. P. 24(a) motion to
intervene as of right because the Schools did not have a
significantly protectable interest as required by Rule 24(a),
and they failed to explain how they were prejudiced by the
district court’s denial of intervention as of right.
    Dissenting, Judge Collins agreed with the majority that
the case was not moot and that the Schools had Article III
standing to challenge the settlement. However, he disagreed
with the majority’s conclusion that the Schools lacked
prudential standing, and would hold that the district court did
not abuse its discretion in allowing the Schools to
permissively intervene for the purpose of objecting to the
settlement. Because the district court properly reached the
merits of the Schools’ objections to the settlement, the
Schools have a right to appeal that adverse ruling, and he
would hold that the district court erred in approving the
settlement.
              SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.            7


                        COUNSEL

Rebecca C. Ellis (argued), Eileen M. Connor, and Rebecca
C. Eisenbrey, Project on Predatory Student Lending,
Jamaica Plain, Massachusetts; Joseph Jaramillo, Housing &
Economic Rights Advocates, Oakland, California; for
Plaintiffs-Appellees.
Sean R. Janda (argued), Mark B. Stern, and Joshua M.
Salzman, Appellate Staff Attorneys, Civil Division; Marcia
Berman, Assistant Director, Federal Programs Branch;
Ismail J. Ramsey, United States Attorney; Sarah E.
Harrington and Brian D. Netter, Deputy Assistant Attorneys
General; United States Department of Justice, Washington,
D.C.; Stuart Robinson, Trial Attorney, Civil Division,
Federal Programs Branch; Stephanie Hinds, United States
Attorney, Office of the United States Attorney; United States
Department of Justice, San Francisco, California; Karen
Karas, Attorney; Brian Siegel, Assistant General Counsel for
Postsecondary Education; John P. Baily, Senior Counsel;
Lisa Brown, General Counsel; United States Department of
Education, Washington, D.C.; for Defendants-Appellees.
Jesse Panuccio (argued), Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP,
Washington, D.C.; Jason H. Hilborn, Boies Schiller &
Flexner LLP, Fort Lauderdale, Florida; John Kucera, Boies
Schiller & Flexner LLP, Los Angeles, California; Lucas C.
Townsend (argued), and Jeffrey Liu, Gibson Dunn &
Crutchner LLP, Washington, D.C.; James L. Zelenay Jr.,
Gibson Dunn & Crutchner LLP, Los Angeles, California;
Katherine Worden, Gibson Dunn & Crutchner LLP, San
Francisco, California; John S. Moran, McGuireWoods LLP,
Washington, D.C.; Piper A. Waldron, McGuireWoods LLP,
Los Angeles, California; for Intervenors-Appellants.
8            SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


Mathura Sridharan and Jana M. Bosch, Deputy Solicitors
General; Benjamin M. Flowers, Ohio Solicitor General;
Dave Yost, Ohio Attorney General; Office of the Ohio
Attorney General, Columbus, Ohio; Melissa Holyoak, Utah
Solicitor General; Sean D. Reyes, Utah Attorney General;
Office of the Utah Attorney General, Salt Lake City, Utah;
Steve Marshall, Alabama Attorney General, Office of the
Alabama Attorney General, Montgomery, Alabama; Treg
Taylor, Alaska Attorney General, Office of the Alaska
Attorney General, Anchorage, Alaska; Tim Griffin,
Arkansas Attorney General, Office of the Arkansas Attorney
General, Little Rock, Arkansas; Ashley Moody, Florida
Attorney General, Office of the Florida Attorney General;
Tallahassee, Florida; Christopher M. Carr, Georgia Attorney
General, Office of the Georgia Attorney General, Atlanta,
Georgia; Raúl R. Labrador, Idaho Attorney General, Office
of the Idaho Attorney General; Boise, Idaho; Theodore E.
Rokita, Indiana Attorney General, Office of the Indiana
Attorney General; Indianapolis, Indiana; Kris Kobach,
Kansas Attorney General, Office of the Kansas Attorney
General, Topeka, Kansas; Daniel Cameron, Kentucky
Attorney General, Office of the Kentucky Attorney General,
Frankfort, Kentucky; Jeff Landry, Louisiana Attorney
General, Office of the Louisiana Attorney General; Baton
Rouge, Louisiana; Lynn Fitch, Mississippi Attorney
General, Office of the Mississippi Attorney General,
Jackson, Mississippi; Austin Knudsen, Montana Attorney
General, Office of the Montana Attorney General, Helena,
Montana; Drew H. Wrigley, North Dakota Attorney
General, Office of the North Dakota Attorney General,
Bismarck, North Dakota; Gentner Drummond, Oklahoma
Attorney General, Office of the Oklahoma Attorney
General, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Alan Wilson, South
             SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.         9


Carolina Attorney General, Office of the South Carolina
Attorney General, Columbia, South Carolina; Ken Paxton,
Texas Attorney General, Office of the Texas Attorney
General, Austin, Texas; Patrick Morrisey, West Virginia
Attorney General, Office of the West Virginia Attorney
General, Charleston, West Virginia; Bridget Hill, Wyoming
Attorney General, Office of the Wyoming Attorney General,
Cheyenne, Wyoming; for Amici Curiae Ohio, Utah,
Alabama, Alaska, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Idaho,
Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi,
Montana, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Texas,
West Virginia, and Wyoming.
Neville S. Hedley, Hamilton Lincoln Law Institute,
Washington, D.C., for Amicus Curiae Hamilton Lincoln
Law Institute.
Shennan Kavanagh and Kyra Taylor, National Consumer
Law Center, Boston, Massachusetts, for Amicus Curiae
National Consumer Law Center.
Donald L. R. Goodson and Max Sarinsky, Institute for
Policy Integrity, New York University School of Law, Wilf
Hall, New York, New York, for Amicus Curiae Institute for
Policy Integrity at NYU School of Law.
10            SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


                         OPINION

SUNG, Circuit Judge:

    Three intervenor for-profit university organizations
(American National University, Everglades College, Inc.,
and Lincoln Educational Services Corp.—collectively, “the
Schools”) appeal from the district court’s final approval of a
class action settlement between the United States
Department of Education (“the Department”) and Plaintiffs,
who represent a class of over 500,000 federal loan
borrowers. The settlement completely resolves Plaintiffs’
class action complaint, originally filed in June 2019,
regarding the Department’s backlog of hundreds of
thousands of unprocessed applications for borrower defense
(“BD”) relief.
    For the reasons stated below, we conclude that the
Schools have alleged the minimum constitutional
requirements for Article III standing. But because the
Schools are not parties to the settlement and have not shown
that the settlement will cause them formal legal prejudice,
they lack standing to challenge the district court’s final
approval of the settlement on appeal. We also conclude that
the dispute between Plaintiffs and the Department was not
moot at the time the district court approved the settlement,
and we affirm the district court’s denial of the Schools’
motion to intervene as of right.
                       I. Background
    The Student Loan Reform Act of 1993 authorized the
Secretary of Education to develop a program for discharging
federal educational loan debts based on the wrongful acts or
omissions of the schools attended by borrowers. 20 U.S.C.
                SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.                     11


§§ 1070, 1087e(h); Student Loan Reform Act of 1993, Pub.
L. No. 103-66, § 455, 107 Stat. 341, 351. Accordingly, the
Secretary established the BD program. William D. Ford
Federal Direct Loan Program, 59 Fed. Reg. 61,664, 61,696
(Dec. 1, 1994) (to be codified at 34 C.F.R. pt. 685); see also
Office of Postsecondary Education, 60 Fed. Reg. 37,768,
37,769 (July 21, 1995). Under the program regulations,
when a borrower submits a BD application, the Department
engages in factfinding and decides whether and to what
extent to grant any repayment relief. 34 C.F.R.
§§ 685.222(e), 685.206(e). 1 If the Department approves the
application and discharges any of the borrower’s debt, the
Department may, but is not required to, seek recoupment of
funds from the school in a separate adjudicatory proceeding.
Id. §§ 668.125, 685.308(a)(3); see also id. §§ 685.206(c)(3)–
(4), 685.222(e)(7).
    During the first 20 years of the BD program’s existence,
few borrowers filed applications for relief. See Student
Assistance General Provisions, Federal Perkins Loan
Program, Federal Family Education Loan Program, William
D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program, and Teacher
Education Assistance for College and Higher Education
Grant Program, 81 Fed. Reg. 39,330, 39,330 (June 16, 2016)
(to be codified in scattered sections of 34 C.F.R.). In May
2015, however, Corinthian Colleges, Inc., a for-profit

1
   The Department has amended the regulations governing the
adjudication of BD applications several times, including in 2016 and
2019. As a result, two different versions of the adjudication process are
relevant in this appeal. Compare 34 C.F.R. § 685.206, with 34 C.F.R.
§ 685.222. The date on which a BD applicant’s original federal loan was
disbursed determines which version applies. 34 C.F.R. § 685.206(c)–(e).
The parties agree that either the 2016 or 2019 versions govern the class
members’ applications, so we consider both.
12            SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


educational institution with over 70,000 students across
more than 100 campuses, filed for bankruptcy, which caused
a “flood” of BD applications. Id. In response, the
Department announced that it would “develop new
regulations to establish a more accessible and consistent
borrower defense standard and clarify and streamline the
borrower defense process to protect borrowers and improve
the Department’s ability to hold schools accountable for
actions and omissions that result in loan discharges.” Id. at
39,331.
     By the end of 2016, more borrowers from a range of
schools had begun to use the BD process, and “the Secretary
had approved 31,773 applications for discharge and found
245 ineligible, for a 99.2% grant rate.” Still, many thousands
of applications remained pending. By June 2018, “borrowers
had submitted, in total, 165,880 applications” with “105,998
still to be decided.” By June 2019, the backlog had grown to
more than 210,000 applications, and the Department had
stopped adjudicating any BD applications. In re U.S. Dep’t
of Educ., 25 F.4th 692, 696 (9th Cir. 2022) (“From June 2018
through December 2019, the Department issued no borrower
defense decisions.”).
    Plaintiffs sued the Department in June 2019, alleging
that its failure to adjudicate BD applications violated the
Administrative Procedure Act (“APA”). In October 2019,
the district court certified a class of “[a]ll people who
borrowed a Direct Loan or FFEL loan to pay for a program
of higher education, who have asserted a borrower defense
to repayment to the U.S. Department of Education, whose
borrower defense has not been granted or denied on the
merits, and who is not a class member in Calvillo Manriquez
v. DeVos, No. 17-7106 (N.D. Cal.).”
               SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.              13


    First settlement agreement. In December 2019,
Plaintiffs and the Department cross-moved for summary
judgment. But before the district court ruled on the motions,
the parties executed their first settlement agreement. In this
settlement, the Department agreed to decide all pending BD
applications within 18 months. The district court
preliminarily approved the settlement in May 2020.
    Before final approval, however, the Department began
issuing pro forma denial notices to a large number of class
members, instead of adjudicating the applications on the
merits. When Plaintiffs learned about the pro forma denials,
they notified the district court that the Department was
breaching the settlement agreement. The district court
conducted an inquiry, and the Department admitted that it
had used four templates to deny 89.8% of the 131,800
applications reviewed. At the fairness hearing, several class
members expressed “serious concern” with the settlement
“in light of the Secretary’s recent string of form denials.”
Because of Plaintiffs’ concerns and the class members’
objections, the district court denied final approval of the first
settlement and ordered discovery to resume. A few months
later, Plaintiffs filed a supplemental complaint adding claims
that the Department had illegally adopted a “presumption of
denial” policy in violation of the APA and the Due Process
Clause of the Fifth Amendment.
   Second settlement agreement. In June 2022, Plaintiffs
again moved for summary judgment. While that motion was
pending, the parties requested preliminary approval of a
second settlement agreement—the one at issue in this
appeal. The settlement divides the class into three groups,
described below, for the purposes of relief.
14            SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


    Borrowers in Group One (approximately 196,000
borrowers) get automatic debt forgiveness. Group One
consists of borrowers who have pending BD applications
associated with any of 151 schools on a list attached as
Exhibit C to the settlement. The settlement agreement does
not explain how Exhibit C was developed. But the parties’
joint motion for preliminary approval of the settlement
states: “The Department has determined that attendance at
one [of the schools listed in Exhibit C] justifies presumptive
relief, for purposes of this settlement, based on strong indicia
regarding substantial misconduct by [the] listed schools,
whether credibly alleged or in some instances proven, and
the high rate of class members with applications related to
the listed schools.”
    Group Two (approximately 100,000 borrowers) consists
of borrowers with pending BD applications associated with
schools that are not listed in Exhibit C. The Department
agreed to resolve Group Two borrowers’ claims in a
streamlined adjudication process. If the Department does not
meet specified deadlines, Group Two borrowers will receive
automatic debt relief.
    Group Three (approximately 206,000 borrowers) covers
borrowers who submitted a BD application after the
settlement’s execution date but before the date of final
approval. The Department may adjudicate Group Three
borrowers’ applications under the regulations applicable to
loans between 2017 and 2020, but it must resolve them
within three years. If the Department fails to meet the
deadline, Group Three borrowers will receive full relief.
    Intervention by Schools. Three weeks after the parties
moved for preliminary approval of the second settlement,
four schools listed in Exhibit C (including the three Schools
               SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.                  15


bringing the present appeal) moved to intervene. Plaintiffs
and the Department opposed intervention. The district court
conducted a hearing where it heard from the prospective
intervenors regarding their asserted interests in the litigation
and heard from the parties regarding the settlement. At the
close of the hearing, the district court preliminarily approved
the settlement in a bench ruling. A few weeks later, the
district court denied the intervenors’ motions to intervene as
of right but allowed them to permissively intervene for the
sole purpose of objecting to the class action settlement at the
final approval fairness hearing.
    The Schools submitted written objections to the
settlement and were given an opportunity to be heard at the
final fairness hearing. The district court rejected the Schools’
objections and granted final approval of the settlement.
    The Schools timely appealed and moved to stay the
judgment pending appeal. The district court, our court, and
the Supreme Court all denied the Schools’ applications for a
stay.
                           II. Standing
    The Department 2 argues that this appeal should be
dismissed because the Schools do not have Article III
standing. Additionally, the Department argues that, because
the Schools are not parties to the settlement, they have no
“cause of action” to challenge the settlement.
    Standing analysis “involves both constitutional
limitations on federal-court jurisdiction and prudential
limitations on its exercise.” Warth v. Seldin, 422 U.S. 490,

2
  We have considered both Plaintiffs’ and the Department’s arguments,
but because they are so similar, we refer to “the Department” for
simplicity.
16             SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


498 (1975). “The constitutional requirements are derived
from Article III, Section 2, Clause 1 of the United States
Constitution, and the prudential limitations are rules of
judicial self-governance.” United States v. Mindel, 80 F.3d
394, 396 (9th Cir. 1996).
    “Apart from th[e] minimum constitutional mandate, [the
Supreme] Court has recognized other limits on the class of
persons who may invoke the courts’ decisional and remedial
powers.” Warth, 422 U.S. at 499 (explaining prohibitions on
generalized grievances and third-party standing); see also
Lexmark Int’l, Inc. v. Static Control Components, Inc., 572
U.S. 118, 126 (2014) (describing the development of a
“‘prudential’ branch of standing, a doctrine not derived from
Article III” (quoting Elk Grove Unified Sch. Dist. v.
Newdow, 542 U.S. 1, 12 (2004))); United States ex rel.
Alexander Volkhoff, LLC v. Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V.,
945 F.3d 1237, 1241 (9th Cir. 2020) (“‘The rule that only
parties to a lawsuit . . . may appeal an adverse
judgment’ . . . is sometimes described as ‘standing to
appeal,’ [but] it is distinct from the requirements of
constitutional standing.” (citation omitted)).
    One of these additional limits prevents an entity who is
not a party to a settlement from objecting to court approval
of the settlement, either before the district court or on appeal.
Waller v. Fin. Corp. of Am., 828 F.2d 579, 582 (9th Cir.
1987) (“[A] non-settling defendant, in general, lacks
standing to object to a partial settlement.”). There is only one
exception to this general rule: A non-settling entity may
challenge a settlement when it “demonstrate[s] that it will
sustain some formal legal prejudice as a result of the
settlement.” Id. at 583.
                 SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.                       17


    Article III injury does not equal formal legal prejudice.
See United States v. Kovall, 857 F.3d 1060, 1068 (9th Cir.
2017) (“The fact that a would-be litigant has Article III
standing does not guarantee the right to take an appeal.”);
Agretti v. ANR Freight Sys., Inc., 982 F.2d 242, 247 (7th Cir.
1992) (“Mere allegations of injury in fact . . . as a result of a
settlement simply do not rise to the level of plain legal
prejudice.”). Thus, a non-settling entity may have Article III
standing but nonetheless lack prudential standing to
challenge a settlement. 3
                                    A.
    To establish Article III standing, the Schools must show
that they have “(1) suffered an injury in fact, (2) that is fairly
traceable to the challenged conduct of the defendant, and

3
  We recognize that it might be better to ask whether a non-settling entity
has a “cause of action” to object to the settlement, instead of asking
whether the non-settling party has “standing” to object the settlement, as
we did in Waller. The term “standing” “is a word of many, too many,
meanings.” Steel Co. v. Citizens for a Better Env’t, 523 U.S. 83, 90
(1998) (quoting United States v. Vanness, 85 F.3d 661, 663 n.2 (D.C.
Cir. 1996)). And federal courts use many different terms to refer to a
litigant’s eligibility to bring a particular claim or appeal when the
eligibility requirements stem from a statute or legal doctrine other than
Article III. See, e.g., Bank of Am. Corp. v. City of Miami, 581 U.S. 189,
197 (2017) (pointing out that the terms “prudential standing,” “statutory
standing,” and “cause of action” have all been used to describe the “zone
of interests” requirement); Lexmark, 572 U.S. at 128 n.4 (explaining that
the nomenclature of “statutory standing,” “prudential standing,” and a
“cause of action” have all been used interchangeably to refer to non-
Article III limits on standing). Still, because we, and our sister circuits,
have predominantly referred to the Waller formal-legal-prejudice
requirement as a “standing” requirement, we continue to do so here. See,
e.g., Melito v. Experian Mktg. Sols., Inc., 923 F.3d 85, 91 (2d Cir. 2019);
In re Vitamins Antitrust Class Actions, 215 F.3d 26, 31 (D.C. Cir. 2000);
Smith v. Arthur Andersen LLP, 421 F.3d 989, 998–99 (9th Cir. 2005).
18            SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


(3) that is likely to be redressed by a favorable judicial
decision.” Spokeo, Inc. v. Robins, 578 U.S. 330, 338 (2016).
   The Schools allege that their inclusion on Exhibit C has
caused them reputational harm. We must first determine
whether the alleged reputational harm is concrete enough to
constitute “injury in fact.” Lujan v. Defs. of Wildlife, 504
U.S. 555, 560 (1992).
    “Central to assessing concreteness is whether the
asserted harm has a ‘close relationship’ to a harm
traditionally recognized as providing a basis for a lawsuit in
American courts—such as physical harm, monetary harm, or
various intangible harms including (as relevant here)
reputational harm.” TransUnion LLC v. Ramirez, 594 U.S.
413, 417 (2021).
    The Department argues that, because Exhibit C is not
false, misleading, or defamatory, it cannot cause injury that
is concrete enough to support Article III standing without
other proof of concrete harm. Nothing in the settlement
agreement states that the schools listed in Exhibit C engaged
in any wrongdoing or that the Department made a finding to
that effect. However, the Department and Plaintiffs’ joint
motion for settlement approval states, “The Department has
determined that attendance at one [of the schools listed in
Exhibit C] justifies presumptive relief, for purposes of this
settlement, based on strong indicia regarding substantial
misconduct by [the] listed schools, whether credibly alleged
or in some instances proven, and the high rate of class
members with applications related to the listed schools.” The
Schools argue that, because the “speaker” of this statement
is the Department, and the Department is their “primary
federal regulator,” the reputational harm caused by the
              SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.              19


statement is sufficiently concrete to constitute Article III
injury.
    We agree with the Schools that the Department’s
statement could cause reputational injury that supports
Article III standing, even if the statement is not false,
misleading, or defamatory. “In looking to whether a
plaintiff’s asserted harm has a ‘close relationship’ to a harm
traditionally recognized as providing a basis for a lawsuit in
American courts, we do not require an exact duplicate.”
TransUnion, 594 U.S. at 433. A non-defamatory statement
may cause reputational harm that is concrete enough to
confer standing if it is “disparag[ing]” or “impugns the
professional integrity” of its subject, Kennedy v. Warren, 66
F.4th 1199, 1206 (9th Cir. 2023), or if it “would subject [a
person] to hatred, contempt, or ridicule,” TransUnion, 594
U.S. at 432 (citation omitted). Such statements cause more
concrete harm when the government is the speaker, because
there is a “unique stigma associated with having a
government official label someone a law breaker.” Kennedy,
66 F.4th at 1206. Thus, even when “we are unsure” that an
unretracted government statement actually implies that a
person or entity engaged in unlawful conduct, if “any
reader . . . might come away with this impression,” the
resulting reputational injury “is a sufficiently concrete injury
for standing purposes.” Id. Here, an individual who reads the
Department’s statement about Exhibit C might come away
with the impression that schools listed in Exhibit C have
engaged in unlawful conduct. Consequently, the Schools’
alleged reputational harm is concrete enough to support
Article III standing.
   The Department also contends that the alleged
reputational injury is not redressable by a favorable decision.
Reputational injury, however, is redressable if the relief
20            SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


sought “would remove the unique stigma associated with
having a government official label someone a law breaker
and thereby cast a shadow over their activities and
affiliates.” Id.; see also Foretich v. United States, 351 F.3d
1198, 1213–14 (D.C. Cir. 2003) (explaining that “[c]ase law
is clear that where reputational injury derives directly from
an unexpired and unretracted government action, that injury
satisfies the requirements of Article III standing to challenge
that action,” but “the ‘lingering effects’ on reputation of a
retracted or repealed government action normally do not
furnish a basis for Article III standing”). A reputational
injury is redressable by retraction even if retraction would
not prevent other public criticism. Kennedy, 66 F.4th at
1206; see also Meese v. Keene, 481 U.S. 465, 476–77
(1987).
    In this case, the alleged reputational harm was caused by
the Department’s inclusion of the Schools on Exhibit C
coupled with its unretracted statement regarding Exhibit C
in the joint motion for settlement approval. Because the
reputational harm was not caused by the district court’s final
approval of the settlement, the relief sought by the Schools—
reversal or vacatur of that approval—would not necessarily
require the Department to redress the Schools’ claimed
injury. Still, where “a favorable judicial decision would not
require the defendant to redress the plaintiff’s claimed
injury,” the plaintiff can demonstrate redressability by
“show[ing] that the defendant or a third party are nonetheless
likely to provide redress as a result of the decision.” M.S. v.
Brown, 902 F.3d 1076, 1083 (9th Cir. 2018) (internal
citations and quotation marks omitted). Further, there is
redressability if the relief sought would “at least partially
redress the reputational injury.” Meese, 481 U.S. at 476.
Applying these standards here, we find redressability
                SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.                   21


because reversal or vacatur would enable and likely cause
the Department to retract the statement and file a new motion
for settlement approval. Therefore, the Schools have met
their burden to establish Article III standing based on their
alleged reputational harm. 4
                                  B.
    As noted above, a non-settling entity generally lacks
prudential standing to object to a settlement—or to challenge
on appeal a district court’s approval of a settlement, unless
the non-settling entity demonstrates that it will “sustain some
formal legal prejudice as a result of the settlement.” Waller,
828 F.2d at 583. “This rule advances the policy of
encouraging the voluntary settlement of lawsuits.” Id. “[T]he
interest in encouraging settlements” is particularly strong “in
class actions, which are often complex, drawn out
proceedings demanding a large share of finite judicial
resources.” Mayfield v. Barr, 985 F.2d 1090, 1092 (D.C. Cir.
1993).
    Courts have applied this rule to both parties and non-
parties, including non-settling defendants, Smith, 421 F.3d at
998; Waller, 828 F.2d at 582; non-settling third-party
defendants, Melito, 923 F.3d at 91; opted-out class members,
Mayfield, 985 F.2d at 1092; and non-class members, Gould
v. Alleco, Inc., 883 F.2d at 281, 285 (4th Cir. 1989).
    The Department argues that the Schools, as non-settling
permissive intervenors, lack standing to challenge the
settlement approval on appeal. The Schools argue that the
parties have forfeited this issue. Alternatively, the Schools

4
  Because we conclude that the Schools have Article III standing based
on their alleged reputational injury, we do not reach whether they have
standing based on their alleged financial and procedural injuries.
22               SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


argue that they have demonstrated that the settlement will
cause them formal legal prejudice.
                                   1.
    We first address the Schools’ argument that the
Department and Plaintiffs forfeited the argument that the
Schools lack standing to challenge the district court’s final
approval of the settlement. We have never decided whether
or how a settling party must preserve this issue, and we do
not need to do so here, because the parties adequately raised
the issue below and on appeal.
    Below, the Schools moved to intervene for the purpose
of objecting to the parties’ proposed settlement agreement.
Plaintiffs opposed the intervention motions, arguing that the
Schools did not have “standing to block” the settlement’s
approval. Plaintiffs also repeatedly argued that the Schools
should not be permitted to intervene because they do not
have “any claims or defenses” at issue in the settlement. The
Department similarly opposed the Schools’ motions to
intervene on the ground that the Schools “lack any concrete
interest” in the discretionary settlement, and cited Gould,
883 F.2d at 285, for the proposition that “courts usually
reject outsiders’ attempts to enter the litigation during the
settlement phase.” 5
   The Department has not abandoned its challenge to the
Schools’ standing to object to the settlement on appeal.
Specifically, the Department argues in its answering brief


5
  In Gould, the Fourth Circuit held that “non-class members have no
standing to object . . . to a proposed class settlement” under Rule 23(e),
and it affirmed the district court’s denial of the non-class members’
motion to intervene as of right under Rule 24 because they lacked
sufficient interest in the settlement. 883 F.2d at 284–85.
               SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.               23


that the Schools, as intervenors, “fail to identify any cause of
action that would permit them to challenge the district
court’s approval of the settlement.” As noted above, courts
use the terms “standing” and “cause of action”
interchangeably to refer to a particular litigant’s eligibility to
bring a particular claim or appeal. See supra note 3.
Although the Department did not cite Waller, a party does
not have to cite a particular case to adequately raise an issue.
See Nelson v. Adams USA, Inc., 529 U.S. 460, 469 (2000)
(“[T]his principle [of preserving an issue] does not demand
the incantation of particular words; rather, it requires that the
lower court be fairly put on notice as to the substance of the
issue.”); see also United States v. Williams, 846 F.3d 303,
311 (9th Cir. 2017) (explaining that a party does not waive
or forfeit arguments relating to claims it properly presents to
the district court); Thompson v. Runnells, 705 F.3d 1089,
1098 (9th Cir. 2013) (“[W]e may consider new legal
arguments raised by the parties relating to claims previously
raised in the litigation.”). And in any event, the Schools
apparently understood that the Department’s cause-of-action
argument invoked the Waller rule because they countered in
their reply brief, “[U]nder a ‘recognized exception,’ non-
settling defendants may object if, as here, they will suffer
‘formal legal prejudice as a result of the settlement,’”
quoting Waller and citing Smith. See Thompson, 705 F.3d at
1100 (noting the court did not abuse its discretion in
considering a new legal argument that was “fully addressed
by both parties” on appeal).
    Under these circumstances, the parties have not forfeited
their challenge to the Schools’ standing to object to the
settlement.
24               SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


                                     2.
    The Schools, as non-settling intervenors, lack standing
to object to the district court’s settlement approval unless
they demonstrate formal legal prejudice. 6
    Formal legal prejudice “exists only in those rare
circumstances when, for example, the settlement agreement
formally strips a non-settling party of a legal claim or cause
of action, such as a cross-claim for contribution or
indemnification, invalidates a non-settling party’s contract
rights, or the right to present relevant evidence at a trial.”
Bhatia v. Piedrahita, 756 F.3d 211, 218 (2d Cir. 2014);
accord Waller, 828 F.2d at 582–83. It is not enough for a
non-settling entity to allege that the settlement “effectively
strips them of defenses” or claims if nothing in the settlement
agreement precludes the non-settling entity “from asserting
in the district court or in other litigation any claims or
defenses that may be available to them.” Bhatia, 756 F.3d at
218.
   Thus, for example, we held that a non-settling party
demonstrated formal legal prejudice where the settlement
approval order explicitly stated, “The non-settling parties are
permanently barred and enjoined from asserting or

6
  For purposes of the Waller rule, an intervenor who is not a party to a
settlement is like any other non-settling entity. See, e.g., Waller, 828 F.2d
at 584 (holding that non-settling entity should have been granted
intervention as of right but lacked standing to object to settlement);
United States v. Gila Valley Irrigation Dist., 345 F. App’x 281, 283 (9th
Cir. 2009) (applying Waller and holding that a tribal intervenor lacked
standing to challenge a district court’s order approving a settlement
agreement); Ball ex rel. Burba v. Dewine, No. 20-3927, 2021 WL
4047032, at *3 (6th Cir. June 30, 2021) (holding that entities that had
been granted intervention nonetheless did “not have standing to
challenge the settlement agreement on appeal”).
                SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.                     25


continuing to prosecute, either directly or in any other
capacity, any and all Claims (as defined in the Settlement
Agreement) . . . .” Smith, 421 F.3d at 1000. But we held that
a non-settling defendant did not demonstrate formal legal
prejudice where a settlement bound a settling party to
“cooperate” with other settling parties in prosecuting claims
against the intervenor but did not require the disclosure of
privileged communications. Waller, 828 F.2d at 584. “At
most,” we said, “the settlement puts [the intervenor] at
something of a tactical disadvantage in the continuing
litigation. Such an injury does not constitute plain legal
prejudice.” Id. 7
    The Schools do not identify any provision in the
settlement agreement or settlement approval order that
formally strips them of any legal claim or defense, or any
contractual right. The settlement does not compromise any
of the Schools’ rights or impose any obligations or liabilities
on them. For class members’ BD applications associated
with Exhibit C schools, the settlement only requires the
Department to fully discharge the amount that those
borrowers owe the federal government. The settlement does
not entitle the Department to recoup any funds from the
schools.
   Normally, when the Department approves a BD
application, the Department has the discretion to initiate a
separate proceeding against the school for recoupment. 34
C.F.R. § 668.125. But even when the Department initiates a

7
 Because the Waller rule and its exception are closely related to Federal
Rule of Civil Procedure 41(a)(2) governing voluntary dismissals, federal
courts often use the terms “formal legal prejudice” and “plain legal
prejudice” interchangeably—as we did in Waller itself. See 828 F.2d at
583, 584.
26               SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


recoupment proceeding, the school is free to contest the
issue, and the school retains due process rights. See id.
§§ 668.125, 685.308(a)(3); see also id. §§ 685.206(c)(3)–
(4), 685.222(e)(7). Moreover, as the district court explained,
a Group One BD application that is resolved pursuant to the
settlement is not “a successful or approved borrower-defense
claim” as a matter of law, and consequently, the Department
cannot initiate recoupment proceedings against any Exhibit
C schools as a result of the settlement. 8
    Although the alleged reputational harm to the Schools is
concrete enough to support Article III standing, it does “not
rise to the level of plain legal prejudice.” Agretti, 982 F.2d
at 247; see also Quad/Graphics, Inc. v. Fass, 724 F.2d 1230,
1233 (7th Cir. 1983) (even when a settlement causes “factual
injury to a non-settling party,” “the court should not
intercede in the plaintiff’s decision to settle with certain
parties, unless a remaining party can demonstrate plain legal
prejudice”). Even if the Schools must file a second lawsuit
to remedy the alleged reputational harm, that does not mean
the Schools have standing to object to the district court’s
approval of the settlement in this case. See Agretti, 982 F.2d
at 247 (noting courts have repeatedly held that a settlement

8
  The Department has repeatedly represented on the record that it cannot
and will not seek recoupment from any schools for BD applications
covered by the settlement, and it will not use a school’s inclusion in
Exhibit C as evidence against them in any future BD proceedings. The
district court explicitly noted this in its order approving the settlement,
stating, “The Department has also represented in the sworn declaration
of [Deputy Under Secretary] Benjamin Miller that it does not consider
inclusion on Exhibit C a finding of misconduct and that inclusion does
not constitute evidence that could or would be considered in an action by
the Department against a school. The Court relied upon, and the Court
expects the government to stand behind, the statements made in the
Miller Declaration.”
                 SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.                     27


does not cause formal legal prejudice to a non-settling party
even if it “may force a second lawsuit” against settling
parties); Waller, 828 F.2d at 584 (concluding non-settling
party lacked standing to object to settlement when it could
“seek injunctive relief” or other remedies to address the
alleged harm). Neither the settlement, nor the district court’s
order approving the settlement, bars the Schools from
bringing claims to remedy the alleged reputational harm in a
separate lawsuit. 9
    Because the Schools do not have prudential standing to
object to the settlement, “we cannot review the settlement
approved by the district court.” Agretti, 982 F.2d at 248. 10
                            III. Mootness
    “To qualify as a case fit for federal-court adjudication,
an actual controversy must be extant at all stages of review,
not merely at the time the complaint is filed.” Arizonans for
Off. Eng. v. Arizona, 520 U.S. 43, 67 (1997) (internal
quotation marks omitted) (citation omitted). When Plaintiffs
originally filed their complaint, they requested that the
district court declare that the Department’s “policy of
inaction” on BD applications was unlawful. Under the
parties’ first settlement agreement, the Department agreed to
process all pending BD applications within 18 months. See

9
 The Schools could have moved to seal the settlement or for a protective
order, but, apparently, they did not.
10
   Our conclusion that we lack jurisdiction to review the district court’s
order approving the settlement does not affect our jurisdiction to review
the district court’s separate order denying the Schools’ motion to
intervene as of right. See Waller, 828 F.2d at 584 (holding non-settling
defendant lacked standing to object to settlement but district court erred
in denying the entity’s motion to intervene as of right). We address the
Schools’ appeal of that order below, in Part IV.
28             SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


supra Part I. But, because the Department began issuing pro
forma denial notices to the vast majority of class members,
the district court denied final approval of the first settlement,
and Plaintiffs filed a supplemental complaint which added
claims and related allegations contending that the
Department had unlawfully transformed its “policy of
inaction” into a policy of “presumption of denial.”
    Before the Department and Plaintiffs received
preliminary approval of their second settlement agreement,
the Department moved for summary judgment and argued,
among other things, that its actions had mooted the case. On
appeal, only the Schools argue that the case was moot before
the district court approved the settlement. Although we have
concluded that the Schools lack standing to object to the
settlement, we address mootness because we have an
independent obligation to confirm jurisdiction.
    Below, the Department contended that it had mooted
Plaintiffs’ original claims by processing thousands of BD
applications. But under Rule 15(d), Plaintiffs’ supplemental
complaint merged with their then-operative complaint. See
Fed. R. Civ. P. 15(d); Keith v. Volpe, 858 F.2d 467, 473–76
(9th Cir. 1988). Thus, even assuming that the Department
mooted Plaintiffs’ original claims by processing many (but
not all) pending applications, that action did not moot
Plaintiffs’ supplemental claims.
    The Department also argued below that Plaintiffs’
supplemental claims were moot because it had stopped
issuing pro forma denials. But the Department’s voluntary
cessation of the challenged practice did not render this case
moot. Friends of the Earth, Inc. v. Laidlaw Env’t Servs.
(TOC), Inc., 528 U.S. 167, 189 (2000) (“It is well settled that
‘a defendant’s voluntary cessation of a challenged practice
               SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.               29


does not deprive a federal court of its power to determine the
legality of the practice.’” (citation omitted)); Rosebrock v.
Mathis, 745 F.3d 963, 971–72 (9th Cir. 2014). The
Department could easily resume its conduct if the case were
dismissed. See Rosebrock, 745 F.3d at 971–72.
                IV. Intervention as of Right
    To qualify for intervention as of right under Rule
24(a)(2), a prospective intervenor must “show that: (1) its
motion is timely; (2) it has a significantly protectable interest
relating to the subject of the action; (3) it is so situated that
the disposition of the action may as a practical matter impair
or impede its ability to protect that interest; and (4) its
interest is inadequately represented by the parties to the
action.” Kalbers v. U.S. Dep’t of Just., 22 F.4th 816, 822 (9th
Cir. 2021) (cleaned up). “[A] proposed intervenor ‘has a
significant protectable interest in an action if (1) it asserts an
interest that is protected under some law, and (2) there is a
relationship between its legally protected interest and the
plaintiff’s claims.’” Id. at 827 (citation omitted).
    We review de novo the district court’s decision under
Rule 24(a) to deny the Schools intervention as a matter of
right. See Oakland Bulk & Oversized Terminal, LLC v. City
of Oakland, 960 F.3d 603, 620 (9th Cir. 2020). However, the
harmless error doctrine applies to intervention rulings,
which means that we will reverse only if any error affected
the substantial rights of the parties. Prete v. Bradbury, 438
F.3d 949, 959–60 (9th Cir. 2006).
    Here, the district court did not err in denying the
Schools’ motion for intervention as of right. The Schools do
not have a significantly protectable interest as required by
Rule 24(a), and they fail to explain how they were prejudiced
by the district court’s denial of intervention as of right.
30            SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


    The Schools claim that they have significantly
protectable financial interests. But the Schools do not—and
cannot—face exposure to financial recoupment for two
reasons: First, the Schools do not have an independent
financial interest in a borrower’s BD relief because the
Department alone bears the cost of discharging that debt,
which is solely money owed by the student to the federal
government. See 20 U.S.C. § 1087e(h); 34 C.F.R.
§ 685.222(d)(1). As the district court summarized, the
schools have “already gotten the money and [they] don’t
have to pay it back” under the terms of the Department’s
settlement with the borrowers. Second, because a settled BD
application under this settlement does not constitute a
successful BD adjudication, the Department cannot use the
settled applications as a predicate for pursuing recoupment
from the Schools under its own regulations. See 34 C.F.R.
§ 685.222(e)(7). And, as noted above, the Department has
sworn not to pursue any recoupment proceedings against any
Exhibit C school for any of the loans discharged through the
settlement, and the district court further conditioned the
settlement on that promise. Recoupment of funds implicated
by the settlement from any of the Schools is thus a virtual
impossibility.
    The Schools also claim that the settlement interferes with
their rights under Department regulations. As noted above,
the Department first decides whether to grant a student’s
application for repayment relief in a BD proceeding. Supra
Part I. If the Department grants the student relief, the
Department may (but is not required to) try to recoup money
from the school by initiating a second, separate proceeding.
34 C.F.R. §§ 668.125, 685.308(a)(3); see also id.
§§ 685.206(c)(3)–(4), 685.222(e)(7). In the recoupment
              SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.              31


proceeding, the school may contest the basis on which the
Department granted the student relief. See § 668.125.
    In the settlement, the Department and Plaintiffs agreed
to summarily grant BD applications for Group One
borrowers (who attended schools listed in Exhibit C) without
further adjudication. Supra Part I. The Schools argue that, by
doing so, the settlement interfered with their procedural right
to participate in the BD proceeding that the Department
would normally conduct to adjudicate a student’s application
for relief. In a BD proceeding, a school has, at most, the right
to receive notice that an application was filed and an
opportunity to submit a response to information that was
provided by the student. 34 C.F.R. §§ 685.206(e)(10)–
(12)(i), 685.222(e)(3)(i). The regulations do not prohibit the
Department from resolving a BD application through
settlement instead of an adjudication on the merits. The
Department cannot seek recoupment from schools for
applications resolved by the settlement, and, in any event,
the settlement has no effect on the Schools’ rights in
recoupment proceedings. Under these circumstances, the
Schools’ interest in participating in a BD proceeding (as
opposed to a recoupment proceeding) is not a sufficiently
“significant protectable interest” to support intervention as
of right. United States v. Alisal Water Corp., 370 F.3d 915,
919 (9th Cir. 2004) (citation omitted).
    But even if we agreed that the district court erred by
denying the Schools intervention as of right, we would
decline to reverse because any error was harmless. The
district court allowed the Schools to intervene permissively
and carefully considered their objections to the settlement.
The Schools only discuss prejudice in their reply brief, and
even then, they only conclusorily assert that intervention as
of right would allow them to “file claims or assert defenses,
32             SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


take discovery, move to decertify the class, or participate in
settlement negotiations, among other party actions.” That
broad assertion, standing alone, does not show that the denial
of intervention as of right prejudiced the Schools’
“substantial rights.” Prete, 438 F.3d at 960.
                             ***
    For the foregoing reasons, this appeal is DISMISSED in
part, and the district court’s denial of intervention as of right
is AFFIRMED.


COLLINS, Circuit Judge, dissenting:

    I agree with the majority that this case is not moot and
that Intervenors Everglades College, Inc.; Lincoln
Educational Services Corp.; and American National
University (“the Schools”) have Article III standing to
challenge the settlement in this case. But I disagree with the
majority’s further conclusion that the Schools lack so-called
“prudential standing” to challenge the settlement. And
although the majority thus does not directly address the
merits of the Schools’ objections, I would do so and would
reverse the district court’s approval of the settlement. I
therefore respectfully dissent.
                               I
    In holding that the Schools lack prudential standing to
object to the settlement, the majority relies on Waller v.
Financial Corp. of America, 828 F.2d 579 (9th Cir. 1987),
which held that “a non-settling defendant, in general, lacks
standing to object to a partial settlement,” unless “it can
demonstrate that it will sustain some formal legal prejudice
                 SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.                       33


as a result of the settlement.” Id. at 582–83. Because Waller
is not a special rule about appellate standing, but is instead
a rule that governs the ability to make objections to a
settlement both in the district court and on appeal, see Opin.
at 21–22, the majority’s Waller-based ruling necessarily
rests on the premise that the district court should not have
allowed the Schools to be heard in objection to the settlement
and should not have addressed those objections on the
merits. In effect, then, the majority holds that the district
court erred when it granted permissive intervention to the
Schools “for the sole and express purpose of objecting to and
opposing the class action settlement.” In my view, the
district court did not abuse its discretion in allowing the
Schools to permissively intervene for the purpose of
objecting to the settlement. See Blum v. Merrill Lynch
Pierce Fenner & Smith Inc., 712 F.3d 1349, 1352 (9th Cir.
2013) (“We review a decision whether to grant permissive
intervention under an abuse of discretion standard.” (citation
omitted)). 1 And because the district court thus properly
reached the merits of the intervenor Schools’ objections, the
Schools have a right to appeal that adverse ruling, and we
must resolve those merits.
                                    A
    “We have often stated that permissive intervention
‘requires (1) an independent ground for jurisdiction; (2) a
timely motion; and (3) a common question of law and fact
between the movant’s claim or defense and the main

1
  I agree with the majority that the Plaintiffs and the Government
adequately preserved their objections on this score. Both have
consistently argued, in the district court and on appeal, that the Schools
lack a sufficient interest in the settlement to warrant their being heard in
objection.
34            SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


action.’” Freedom from Religion Found., Inc. v. Geithner,
644 F.3d 836, 843 (9th Cir. 2011) (citation omitted); see also
FED. R. CIV. P. 24(b)(1)(B). The district court correctly held
that all of these requirements were satisfied here. With
respect to the first requirement, we have “clarif[ied] that the
independent jurisdictional grounds requirement does not
apply to proposed intervenors in federal-question cases
when the proposed intervenor is not raising new claims,”
including when the proposed intervenor is “an intervening
defendant.” Freedom from Religion Found., Inc., 644 F.3d
at 844 (citation omitted). More specifically, we held that the
jurisdictional component of the permissive-intervention test
“prevents the enlargement of federal jurisdiction in such
cases only where a proposed intervenor seeks to bring new
state-law claims.” Id. (emphasis added). Because the
Schools did not seek to assert “new state-law claims” on the
merits, but merely sought to raise federal legal objections to
the settlement, the statutory “jurisdictional concern drops
away.” Id. The Schools’ motions were plainly timely,
because they were filed within weeks of the filing of the
amended settlement agreement. And whether the settlement
was lawful and should be approved obviously involved
“common question[s] of law or fact” with “the main action.”
FED. R. CIV. P. 24(b)(1)(B).
    But “[e]ven if an applicant satisfies those threshold
requirements, the district court has discretion to deny
permissive intervention.” Donnelly v. Glickman, 159 F.3d
405, 412 (9th Cir. 1998). We have recognized a wide variety
of non-exhaustive factors that may be relevant to a district
court’s exercise of such discretion:

       These relevant factors include the nature and
       extent of the intervenors’ interest, their
              SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.             35


       standing to raise relevant legal issues, the
       legal position they seek to advance, and its
       probable relation to the merits of the case.
       The court may also consider whether changes
       have occurred in the litigation so that
       intervention that was once denied should be
       reexamined, whether the intervenors’
       interests are adequately represented by other
       parties, whether intervention will prolong or
       unduly delay the litigation, and whether
       parties seeking intervention will significantly
       contribute to full development of the
       underlying factual issues in the suit and to the
       just and equitable adjudication of the legal
       questions presented.

Spangler v. Pasadena City Bd. of Educ., 552 F.2d 1326,
1329 (9th Cir. 1977) (footnotes omitted). The record
confirms that the district court adequately considered the
factors that were relevant here, and its weighing of those
factors does not reflect any abuse of discretion. In granting
permissive intervention, the court noted that the Schools had
asserted that the settlement would implicate their
“procedural rights” under the applicable regulations and that
the settlement would also “cause reputational harm”
(internal quotation marks omitted). The order also noted that
the Schools had “explicitly disclaimed” any pursuit of
additional discovery, which confirmed that intervention
would not result in undue delay. At the hearing on the
motion, the court also added that allowing permissive
intervention would “keep the system honest” and thereby
contribute to the full development of the issues and their just
resolution. The district court thus acted well within its
36            SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


discretion by allowing the Schools to permissively intervene
for purposes of objecting to the settlement.
    The majority nonetheless holds that, in the absence of a
showing of “formal legal prejudice,” the Schools should not
have been allowed to intervene for purposes of objecting to
the settlement. See Opin. at 24 (citing Waller, 828 F.2d at
582–83). The majority notes that, absent such a showing,
we have generally not allowed non-settling codefendants in
a suit to be heard in objection to another defendant’s
settlement with the plaintiffs, see Waller, 828 F.2d at 582–
83, and the majority concludes that the same rule should
apply to “an intervenor who is not a party to a settlement.”
Opin. at 24 n.6. The majority asserts that Waller itself
supports extending that rule to permissive intervenors, but
an examination of Waller confirms that that is wrong.
    In Waller, a codefendant in consolidated securities class
actions settled separately with the plaintiffs, but the
settlement required an “expansion of the classes.” 828 F.2d
at 580. After a non-settling codefendant (the accounting
firm that had audited the challenged financial statements)
objected to changing the classes, the plaintiffs sought to
expedite matters by filing (with the district court’s approval)
duplicative actions on behalf of the expanded classes, but
omitting the non-settling codefendants. Id. The accounting
firm then sought to be heard in the duplicative suits for the
purpose of objecting to the settlement, but the district court
denied that motion. Id. at 581. On appeal, we construed that
order as having denied intervention “as of right” and as
having held that the objector lacked “standing as a non-
settling party to offer objections to the settlement.” Id. at
581–82. In holding that the district court erred in denying
intervention as of right, we did not rely on the codefendant’s
asserted interests in objecting to the settlement. Rather, we
              SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.             37


noted that the underlying allegations of false financial
statements in the complaint confirmed that the accounting
firm had an “obvious interest in defending against such
allegations” on the merits. Id. at 582. In effect, we held that
the accounting firm should have been added as a defendant
with respect to the merits of the duplicative action. The
intervention-as-of-right issue was thus independent of, and
did not rest on, the accounting firm’s objections to the
settlement. Although we did not discuss permissive
intervention, it seems obvious from the district court’s ruling
that, had it been presented with a motion seeking only
permissive intervention for the limited purpose of objecting
to the settlement, that court would have exercised its
discretion to deny permissive intervention. Waller thus had
no occasion to address the specific question that confronts
us here, namely, whether a district court has discretion to
allow permissive intervention for the limited purpose of
objecting to a settlement, even in the absence of “formal
legal prejudice.” Apart from its inapposite reliance on
Waller, the majority cites no published precedent that it
claims addresses this specific issue, and I have found none
either.
     In resolving this open question, I discern no reason for
imposing Waller’s “formal legal prejudice” standard as an
artificial constraint on a district court’s exercise of its
authority to allow permissive intervention for the limited
purpose of objecting to a settlement. Indeed, requiring a
showing of formal legal prejudice in order to obtain
permissive intervention would effectively require the
putative intervenor to establish that it qualifies for
intervention as of right. The sort of “formal legal prejudice”
discussed in Waller—e.g., a codefendant’s loss of a “legal
claim or cause of action” due to a settlement, the invalidation
38               SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


of its “contract rights,” or the loss of the “right to assert an
in pari delicto defense,” see Waller, 828 F.2d at 583—would
surely suffice to establish an “interest relating to the property
or transaction that is the subject of the action” that is
“impair[ed]” by the proposed disposition of the action,
which is the standard for intervention as of right. See FED.
R. CIV. P. 24(a)(2). Applying the “formal legal prejudice”
standard as a rigid requirement for obtaining permissive
intervention to challenge a settlement would thus effectively
eliminate such “permissive” intervention altogether. 2

2
  The “formal legal prejudice” standard is also stricter than the zone-of-
interests test that the Government argues on appeal that the Schools must
satisfy before they may assert that the settlement violates administrative
law principles or the Administrative Procedure Act (“APA”). See
Match-E-Be-Nash-She-Wish Band of Pottawatomi Indians v. Patchak,
567 U.S. 209, 224 (2012) (stating that the zone-of-interests test requires
a plaintiff to show that its asserted injury is “‘arguably within the zone
of interests to be protected or regulated by the statute’ that [it] says was
violated” (citation omitted)); see also Clarke v. Securities Indus. Ass’n,
479 U.S. 388, 399 (1987) (noting that this test “is not meant to be
especially demanding”). Even assuming arguendo that the Schools had
to satisfy the zone-of-interests test here even though they did not
intervene to assert affirmative claims for relief under the APA and
instead only sought to defend against the affirmative relief being granted
to Plaintiffs under the settlement, I think that the Schools have satisfied
that test here. The Government argues that, because the Schools are the
regulated parties whose alleged wrongdoing is the subject of the
borrower-defense provisions, the “statutory and regulatory provisions”
governing borrower defense and discharge of student loans “are not
designed to benefit” them, and the Schools therefore “do not fall within
the zone of interests” of those provisions. But the relevant zone of
interests is not defined by the “overarching purpose” of the applicable
statute, “but by reference to the particular provisions of law” at issue.
Bennett v. Spear, 520 U.S. 154, 175–76 (1997) (unanimously rejecting
the view that a party impacted by implementation of the Endangered
                  SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.                        39


    Moreover, I do not think that the underlying Waller rule
is quite as rigid as the majority seems to think. Waller
adopted the “general” rule that a non-settling defendant
“lacks standing to object to a partial settlement,” as well as
an “exception to th[is] general principle” where the non-
settling defendant “can demonstrate that it will sustain some
formal legal prejudice as a result of the settlement.” 828
F.2d at 582–83. We said that the resulting “standard strikes
a balance between the desire to promote settlements and the
interests of justice.” Id. at 583. But we did not say that there
are no other conceivable circumstances in which the
“interests of justice” might permit a district court to exercise
discretion to consider objections from a non-settling party.
Again, Waller involved an effort, on appeal, to force the
district court to consider the non-settling defendant’s
objections, and it may be that, under Waller, a district court
is never required to consider such objections absent a
showing of formal legal prejudice. However, it is another
matter to say that a district court is forbidden from
considering objections from a non-settling party who is
already in the case or that it is forbidden from granting

Species Act fell outside the zone of interests of that statute simply
because it did not seek to “vindicate [that statute’s] overarching purpose
of species preservation”). It follows that a regulated party whose
underlying conduct is at issue in a regulatory legal regime will generally
fall within the zone of interests of the relevant provisions of law that limit
the Government’s power to take action based on such alleged conduct.
See, e.g., Hazardous Waste Treatment Council v. Thomas, 885 F.2d 918,
922 (D.C. Cir. 1989) (noting that “those whom the agency regulates have
the incentive to guard against any administrative attempt to impose a
greater burden than that contemplated by Congress” and that such
entities therefore fall within the zone of interests of the relevant laws
under which that regulation is accomplished). The Schools therefore
satisfy the zone-of-interests test here, even if one assumes that they
cannot establish formal legal prejudice.
40            SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


permissive intervention to allow objections from particular
non-settling entities that otherwise meet the requirements of
Rule 24(b) and Article III.
    Accordingly, I would hold that the district court did not
abuse its discretion in allowing the Schools to permissively
intervene for the limited purpose of objecting to the
settlement. And, having done so, the district court therefore
properly reached the merits of the Schools’ objections to the
settlement in this case.
                              B
    Having been properly granted intervention to object to
the settlement, and having obtained a merits ruling from the
district court concerning those objections, the Schools are
entitled to appeal that adverse decision, and we must decide
the merits of that appeal.
    “An intervenor, whether by right or by permission,
normally has the right to appeal an adverse final judgment
by a trial court.” Stringfellow v. Concerned Neighbors in
Action, 480 U.S. 370, 375–76 (1987). Where, as here,
intervention was granted for a limited purpose, an intervenor
may raise on appeal only those issues that affect the interests
of the intervenor that formed the basis for that limited
intervention. See Shaff v. United States, 695 F.2d 1138,
1140 n.1 (9th Cir. 1983); see also 7C CHARLES ALAN
WRIGHT, ARTHUR R. MILLER, AND MARY KAY KANE,
FEDERAL PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE § 1923 at pp. 643–44
(3d ed. 2007) (noting that, although “[o]ne who has been
allowed to intervene in an action may appeal from
subsequent orders in the action,” an appeal by the intervenor
will be allowed “only if the subsequent orders affect the
intervenor and only to the extent of the interest that made it
possible for intervention” (footnote omitted)). And because,
              SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.              41


as the majority correctly concludes, the Schools have Article
III standing and the case is not moot, the Schools are entitled
to appeal the district court’s rejection of their arguments
against approving the settlement. See Organized Vill. of
Kake v. USDA, 795 F.3d 956, 963 (9th Cir. 2015) (noting
that intervenors must have Article III standing to pursue an
appeal). We are therefore obligated to decide whether the
district court properly rejected the Schools’ objections.
                              II
    Because the majority (erroneously) declines to reach the
merits of the Schools’ appeal, I will not exhaustively address
the Schools’ objections and will only briefly summarize why
I would conclude that the Schools are correct in contending
that the settlement should be set aside. In particular, at least
two of the objections raised by the Schools require that the
settlement be vacated.
    First, the Government lacks the necessary statutory
authority to grant the relief contained in the settlement. The
Government concedes, for purposes of this appeal, that the
Department of Justice’s general authority to settle litigation
“may not be used to require an agency to take substantive
action that exceeds its statutory power.” See Brief for
Defendants-Appellees at 31 (citing Authority of the U.S. to
Enter Settlements Limiting the Future Exercise of Executive
Branch Discretion, 23 Op. O.L.C. 126, 136–38 (1999)). The
Government proffers two sources of the Education
Department’s statutory authority to justify the settlement’s
loan forgiveness, but neither suffices.
    The Government cites the borrower-defense authority
granted under § 455(h) of the Higher Education Act of 1965
(“HEA”), but that provision requires that any such defense
to repayment must be “specif[ied] in regulations.” See HEA
42               SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


§ 455(h), 20 U.S.C. § 1087e(h). 3 However, the loan
forgiveness contained in the settlement—particularly the
portion relating to the schools on “Exhibit C” to the
settlement agreement—is not being done pursuant to, or in
accordance with, the applicable borrower-defense
regulations. Indeed, in upholding the settlement, both the
district court and the majority have placed great weight on
the fact that the monetary relief afforded to a borrower
attending an “Exhibit C” school “is not ‘a successful or
approved borrower-defense claim.’” See Opin. at 26
(quoting district court order); see also id. at 31 (similar). But
if full loan relief is being given to an entire subclass of
Plaintiffs outside the strictures and limitations of the
borrower-defense statute and regulations, then that statute
and those regulations cannot be invoked as the authority for
that action, which effectively replaces the statutory
borrower-defense system with something entirely different.
Cf. Portland Gen. Elec. Co. v. Bonneville Power Admin., 501
F.3d 1009, 1031 (9th Cir. 2007) (“A settlement agreement
cannot be a means of bypassing congressionally mandated
requirements.”). Indeed, the settlement here presumably
eschewed reliance on the borrower-defense provisions
precisely because invoking them would have implicated the
procedural and substantive rights of the Schools in a way that
would likely have allowed them to establish formal legal
prejudice and a basis for intervention as of right.


3
  Because title 20 of the U.S. Code has not been enacted as positive law,
I will cite the underlying text of the HEA, together with a citation to the
section of title 20 to which the relevant provision has been classified.
The current text of the HEA is available on the website of the
Government                  Publishing             Office                at
https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/COMPS-765/pdf/COMPS-
765.pdf.
              SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.             43


    The Government also notes that, under § 432 of the
HEA, the Secretary may, in connection with the exercise of
his authority under “this part”—i.e., Part B of Title IV of the
HEA (which governs the “Federal Family Education Loan
Program” or “FFEL Program”)—“enforce, pay,
compromise, waive, or release any right, title, claim, lien, or
demand, however acquired, including any equity or any right
of redemption.”       See HEA § 432(a)(6), 20 U.S.C.
§ 1082(a)(6). But even assuming arguendo that this general
grant of administrative authority includes the power to
forgive loans on the scale involved here—a question on
which I express no view—it is undisputed that the vast
majority of the loans covered by this settlement were issued
under Part D of Title IV (governing the “William D. Ford
Federal Direct Loan Program” or “Direct Loan Program”),
not Part B. The Government’s only response to this obvious
textual problem is to note that, under § 455(a)(1) of the
HEA, direct loans under Part D “shall have the same terms,
conditions, and benefits, and be available in the same
amounts,” as loans issued under four specified sections of
Part B. HEA § 455(a)(1), 20 U.S.C. § 1087e(a)(1). But a
general administrative power granted to an agency does not
fall within the ordinary understanding of the “terms,
conditions, and benefits” of a “loan[]” issued by a third
party under the federal guarantees afforded under the FFEL
Program. Id. (emphasis added). Accordingly, nothing in the
text of § 455(a)(1) carries over, into the Direct Loan
Program, administrative authorities applicable only under
the FFEL Program. Given that the relief granted by the
Department in the settlement exceeds its statutory authority,
the settlement is unlawful and should not have been
approved.
44            SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.


    Second, the settlement unlawfully grants individualized
monetary relief in a class action that was certified only as an
injunctive-relief class under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure
23(b)(2). See Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes, 564 U.S. 338,
360–61 (2011) (stating that Rule 23(b)(2) “does not
authorize class certification when each class member would
be entitled to an individualized award of monetary
damages”). The settlement recognizes that individualized
determinations will be required to decide whether a
particular borrower’s loans are “associated with a program,
school, or School Group listed in Exhibit C” as well as to
determine the individualized monetary refunds to be made
to each such borrower. The district court held that the
individualized restitution awards fell within the scope of the
equitable relief permitted in a Rule 23(b)(2) class action, but
that is wrong. See id. at 365 (holding that equitable
restitutionary awards of “backpay” are not authorized in “a
(b)(2) class action,” because Rule 23(b)(2) “does not speak
of ‘equitable’ remedies generally but of injunctions and
declaratory judgments”); see also Richards v. Delta Air
Lines, Inc., 453 F.3d 525, 530–31 (D.C. Cir. 2006) (holding
that Rule 23(b)(2) did not authorize certification of a class
action seeking an injunction requiring Delta to process and
pay class members’ monetary claims for lost or damaged
baggage). Plaintiffs argue that the settlement is comparable
to the sort of injunctive relief that we allowed to be pursued
on a classwide basis in Fowler v. Guerin, 899 F.3d 1112 (9th
Cir. 2018), but that is incorrect. At issue in Fowler was an
“indivisible injunction benefitting all [class] members at
once” by merely mandating the defendant’s use of a “single
formula” in calculating interest in retirement accounts. Id.
at 1120 (emphasis added) (quoting Dukes, 564 U.S. at 362).
In contrast to Fowler, the settlement here bears no
                 SWEET V. EVERGLADES COLLEGE, INC.                      45


resemblance to a simple, indivisible injunction that merely
has indirect collateral monetary consequences.
    Because these key features of the settlement were
invalid, the district court erred in approving the settlement.
I would therefore vacate the approval of the settlement and
remand for further proceedings. 4
    I respectfully dissent.




4
  Because I would vacate the settlement as unlawful, I have no occasion
to address whether the district court erred in denying the Schools’ request
for intervention as of right. The Schools’ arguments in favor of
intervention as of right (including their arguments that their motions for
such intervention were timely) were all predicated on the specific
features of the parties’ proposed settlement agreement. A vacatur of that
settlement agreement as unlawful suffices to vitiate the Schools’ asserted
grounds for intervention as of right, thereby rendering it unnecessary for
me to reach that issue.
