                FOR PUBLICATION

  UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
       FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

ADVANCED INTEGRATIVE                      No. 22-1568
MEDICAL SCIENCE INSTITUTE,
                                      Drug Enforcement
PLLC; Doctor SUNIL
                                       Administration
AGGARWAL, MD, PhD, FAAPMR,
FAAHPM; MICHAL                             OPINION
BLOOM; ERINN
BALDESCHWILER,

           Petitioners,
 v.

UNITED STATES DRUG
ENFORCEMENT
ADMINISTRATION,

           Respondent.

       On Petition for Review of an Order of the
          Drug Enforcement Administration
        Argued and Submitted August 19, 2024
              San Francisco, California
                Filed February 13, 2025
Before: Marsha S. Berzon, Daniel A. Bress, and Lawrence
               VanDyke, Circuit Judges.

               Opinion by Judge Berzon
2                         AIMS V. USDEA


                          SUMMARY *


                  Controlled Substances Act

   The panel denied a petition for review brought by the
Advanced Integrative Medical Science Institute (AIMS)
challenging the decision of the Drug Enforcement
Administration (DEA) not to exempt AIMS co-director Dr.
Sunil Aggarwal from registration under the Controlled
Substances Act (CSA) when he sought to provide patients
with psilocybin.
    AIMS asked DEA to exempt Dr. Aggarwal from
registration under the CSA, either by finding that Dr.
Aggarwal’s proposed use of psilocybin was not covered by
the CSA’s registration requirement or by waiving the
registration requirement. DEA declined to take either
action.
    The panel held that there was jurisdiction under 21
U.S.C. § 877 to review DEA’s letter of August 19, 2022,
stating that it would not reconsider its denial of AIMS’s
request. Under the two-part test set forth in Bennett v. Spear,
520 U.S. 154 (1997), the letter constituted final agency
action.
    The panel rejected AIMS’s argument that DEA’s denial
of its request to exempt Dr. Aggarwal from registration
under the CSA was arbitrary and capricious. The DEA
articulated several reasons for its denial of AIMS’s
rulemaking request that, taken together, provided a

*
 This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
                       AIMS V. USDEA                       3


reasonable explanation as to why it could not or would not
exercise its discretion to initiate rulemaking.


                        COUNSEL

Shane Pennington (argued), Porter Wright Morris & Arthur
LLP, Washington, D.C.; James F. Williams, Thomas J.
Tobin, Caleb Bacos, and Mason Y. Ji, Perkins Coie LLP,
Seattle, Washington; Andrew J. Kline, Perkins Coie LLP,
Denver, Colorado; Holly Martinez, Perkins Coie LLP,
Portland, Oregon; Kathryn L. Tucker, National Psychedelics
Association, Washington, D.C.; Matthew C. Zorn, Yetter
Coleman LLP, Houston, Texas; for Petitioners.
Thomas G. Pulham (argued) and Mark B. Stern, Appellate
Staff Attorneys, Civil Division; Brian M. Boynton, Principal
Deputy Assistant Attorney General; United States
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for Respondent.
Christina Sandefur and Timothy Sandefur, Scharf-Norton
Center for Constitutional Litigation at the Goldwater
Institute, Phoenix, Arizona; Anastasia Boden, Cato Institute,
Washington, D.C.; for Amici Curiae Goldwater Institute and
Cato Institute.
Eleanor Hamburger, Sirianni Youtz Spoonemore
Hamburger PLLC, Seattle, Washington, for Amici Curiae
End of Life Washington and The American College of Legal
Medicine.
Peter B. Gonick, Deputy Solicitor General; Robert W.
Ferguson, Attorney General of Washington; Office of the
Washington Attorney General, Olympia, Washington;
Kathleen Jennings, Attorney General of Delaware,
Wilmington, Delaware; Kwame Raoul, Attorney General of
4                      AIMS V. USDEA


Illinois, Chicago, Illinois; Dana Nessel, Attorney General of
Michigan, Lansing, Michigan; Keith Ellison, Attorney
General of Minnesota, St. Paul, Minnesota; Aaron Ford,
Attorney General of Nevada, Carson City, Nevada; Ellen F.
Rosenbaum, Attorney General of Oregon, Salem, Oregon;
Michelle A. Henry, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Brian L.
Schwalb, Attorney General of District of Columbia,
Washington, D.C.; for Amici Curiae the State(s) of
Washington, Delaware, Illinois, Michigan, Minnesota,
Nevada, Oregon, and Pennsylvania, and the District of
Columbia.



                        OPINION

BERZON, Circuit Judge:

    Psilocybin is a hallucinogenic compound found in
certain mushrooms. When Congress enacted the Controlled
Substances Act (CSA), 21 U.S.C. §§ 801–904, it classified
psilocybin under the CSA’s schedule I—the statute’s most
restrictive category for controlled substances. As a schedule
I substance, psilocybin may be produced, dispensed, or
possessed only in the context of a research protocol
registered with the Drug Enforcement Administration
(“DEA” or “the Agency”) and approved by the Secretary of
Health and Human Services.
    Since 2021, the Advanced Integrative Medical Science
Institute (AIMS) and its co-director Dr. Sunil Aggarwal have
sought approval from DEA to provide Dr. Aggarwal’s
                         AIMS V. USDEA                            5


patients with psilocybin. 1 Initially, AIMS asked DEA for
guidance as to how the Agency would accommodate the
Right to Try Act (RTT Act), a 2018 amendment to the Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA), that made it easier for
patients to gain access to new drugs under certain
circumstances. When DEA responded that the RTT Act did
not waive any of the CSA’s requirements, AIMS petitioned
this Court for review. We dismissed AIMS’s petition for lack
of jurisdiction because DEA’s response did not constitute a
final decision.
    Following the dismissal of its earlier petition, AIMS
returned to DEA with a concrete request. AIMS asked DEA
to exempt Dr. Aggarwal from registration under the CSA,
either by finding that Dr. Aggarwal’s proposed use of
psilocybin was not covered by the CSA’s registration
requirement or by waiving the registration requirement.
DEA declined to take either action, and AIMS again
petitioned for review. Because DEA’s response was neither
arbitrary nor capricious, we deny AIMS’s petition for
review.
                     I. BACKGROUND
    A. The Controlled Substances Act
    To prevent the illicit and improper use of substances that
pose a risk to public health and welfare, see 21 U.S.C. § 801,
the CSA establishes a “closed regulatory system making it
unlawful to manufacture, distribute, dispense, or possess any
controlled substance except in a manner authorized by the
CSA.” Gonzales v. Raich, 545 U.S. 1, 13 (2005). The statute
classifies controlled substances under five schedules

1
 We refer to AIMS and Dr. Aggarwal individually when appropriate and
collectively as AIMS.
6                         AIMS V. USDEA


reflecting the government’s determination concerning a
substance’s safety, accepted medical uses, and potential for
abuse. 21 U.S.C. § 812(b). Substances in schedule I have “a
high potential for abuse,” “no currently accepted medical use
in treatment in the United States,” and a “lack of accepted
safety for use . . . under medical supervision.” Id.
§ 812(b)(1). When the CSA was enacted, Congress initially
assigned certain substances to the schedules. See id.
§ 812(c). Congress also authorized the Attorney General to
add or remove substances from the schedules and to transfer
a drug between schedules, subject to certain statutory
criteria. See id. §§ 811, 812(c).
    The CSA limits the lawful use of controlled substances.
Any person seeking to manufacture, distribute, or dispense a
controlled substance must be registered with the Attorney
General. Id. § 822(a)(1)–(2). The Attorney General has
delegated authority to enforce CSA’s registration
requirements to DEA. 28 C.F.R. § 0.100(a). Because
schedule I drugs are classified as having no accepted medical
use, they can be dispensed by medical practitioners only in
the context of “bona fide research,” which requires special
registration approved by the Food and Drug Administration
(FDA), under authority delegated by the Secretary of Health
and Human Services. 21 U.S.C. § 823(f) (2021); see Food
and Drug Administration; Delegation of Authority, 86 Fed.
Reg. 49337 (Sept. 2, 2021). 2 An individual registered to

2
  Following an amendment to the CSA in 2022, the research registration
requirement for practitioners is now found at 21 U.S.C. § 823(g)(2)(A).
See Medical Marijuana and Cannabidiol Research Expansion Act, Pub.
L. No. 117-215, §§ 101, 103, 136 Stat. 2257, 2258–59, 2261–63 (2022).
Because the provision was found at 21 U.S.C. § 823(f) when DEA
denied AIMS’s request, and was referred to under that subsection by the
parties, we refer to that subsection in this opinion.
                        AIMS V. USDEA                         7


conduct research with controlled substances may be granted
exemption from prosecution under federal, state, or local
laws “when acting within the scope of his registration . . . for
offenses relating to possession, distribution or dispensing of
those controlled substances within the scope of his
exemption.” 21 C.F.R. § 1316.24(a). In addition to handling
registration, DEA “may, by regulation, waive the
requirement for registration of certain manufacturers,
distributors, or dispensers if [DEA] finds it consistent with
the public health and safety.” 21 U.S.C. § 822(d).
  B. The Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
    The FDCA protects the public from health risks
associated with drugs and other biological products. 21
U.S.C. § 393(b). The statute imposes restrictions on the
manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of all drugs,
including but not limited to controlled substances. See, e.g.,
21 U.S.C. § 331. This Court described the drug approval
process under the FDCA in Advanced Integrative Medical
Science Institute, PLLC v. Garland (AIMS I), 24 F.4th 1249
(9th Cir. 2022), a precursor to this case:

       In general, before a new drug can be
       introduced into the market, the FDA must
       approve its new drug application or biologics
       license application, which must include data
       from clinical trials. 21 U.S.C. § 355. To get
       this process started, the sponsor of a clinical
       trial must submit an investigational new drug
       (IND) application to the FDA for permission
       to test the drugs on human subjects. See 21
       C.F.R. § 312.2. Sponsors must provide
       specified information and comply with a long
       list of requirements to obtain approval of an
8                      AIMS V. USDEA


        IND application. See 21 C.F.R. § 312.23. If
        the application is approved, then the sponsor
        must embark on three phases of clinical trials.
        An individual may be able to access an
        investigational new drug through a clinical
        trial. 21 C.F.R. § 312.300. But in many cases
        an individual may be unable to do so if (for
        example) there is no ongoing clinical trial
        with that drug, any such trial is full, or the
        patient does not meet the testing criteria.

AIMS I, 24 F.4th at 1252 (footnotes omitted). Outside of the
clinical trial process, “a patient may attempt to access an
investigational new drug through the FDA’s expanded
access program.” Id. The expanded access program provides
patients with “serious” or “immediately life-threatening”
diseases and conditions access, pursuant to FDA approval,
to “investigational” new drugs outside of the clinical trial
process where no “comparable or satisfactory alternative
therapy” exists. 21 C.F.R. § 312.305. “[B]ut manufacturers
are often reluctant to provide experimental drugs that may
generate adverse event data.” AIMS I, 24 F.4th at 1252.
    Where a prescription drug is listed as a controlled
substance under the CSA, the FDCA and CSA operate in
tandem: “[a]ny person or organization that produces or
distributes prescription drugs that are also controlled
substances must comply with the requirements of both the
FDCA and the CSA.” Id. at 1254.
    C. The Right to Try Act
    In recognition of the limitations on access to
investigational new drugs under both the FDCA and the
FDA’s expanded access program, Congress passed the RTT
                             AIMS V. USDEA                           9


Act in 2018. See Pub. L. No. 115-176, 132 Stat. 1372
(codified at 21 U.S.C. § 360bbb-0a); AIMS I, 24 F.4th at
1252–53. The RTT Act amended the FDCA to create an
“alternative pathway alongside” the FDA’s expanded access
program for “eligible patients” or their physicians to access
“eligible investigational drugs” outside the clinical trial
process. Pub. L. No. 115-176, § 3(4), 132 Stat. 1372, 1374
(2018); see also 21 U.S.C. § 360bbb-0a(a). An “eligible
patient” is a patient who “has been diagnosed with a life-
threatening disease or condition,” “has exhausted approved
treatment options and is unable to participate in a clinical
trial involving the eligible investigational drug, as certified
by a physician,” and has provided written informed consent.
21 U.S.C. § 360bbb-0a(a)(1). An “eligible investigational
drug” is a drug that has not been approved or licensed by the
FDA, has completed the first phase of clinical trials, is under
active development or production, and is either the subject
of a new drug application or under investigation in a clinical
trial and the subject of an “active investigational new drug
application.” Id. § 360bbb-0a(a)(2).
    The RTT Act exempts the drugs provided to eligible
patients from specified statutory and regulatory
requirements concerning drug labeling, marketing, clinical
testing, and approval. Id. § 360bbb-0a(b). 3 To access an

3
    21 U.S.C. § 360bbb-0a(b) provides:
           Eligible investigational drugs provided to eligible
           patients in compliance with this section are exempt
           from sections 352(f), 353(b)(4), 355(a), and 355(i) of
           this title, section 351(a) of the Public Health Service
           Act, and parts 50, 56, and 312 of title 21, Code of
           Federal Regulations (or any successor regulations),
           provided that the sponsor of such eligible
10                       AIMS V. USDEA


eligible investigational drug under the RTT Act, an eligible
patient or their physician applies directly to the drug’s
sponsor. The FDA is not involved in approving access. See
FDA, Right to Try, https://www.fda.gov/patients/learn-
about-expanded-access-and-other-treatment-options/right-
try; see also 21 U.S.C. § 360bb-0a(d) (describing the FDA’s
role). The RTT Act “does not establish a new entitlement or
modify an existing entitlement, or otherwise establish a
positive right to any party or individual” nor does it
“establish any new mandates, directives, or additional
regulations.” Pub. L. No. 115-176, § 3(1)–(2), 132 Stat.
1372, 1374. Instead, it “only expands the scope of individual
liberty and agency among patients, in limited
circumstances.” Id. § 3(3).
 D. Factual Background
    Dr. Sunil Aggarwal is the co-founder and co-director of
the Advanced Integrative Medical Science Institute, an
“integrative oncology clinic” in Seattle, Washington. As part
of his medical practice, Dr. Aggarwal treats patients with
late stage and terminal cancer, some of whom suffer from
anxiety and depression. Dr. Aggarwal is registered with the
DEA to prescribe schedule II-V drugs, but not to conduct
research with schedule I drugs. Since 2021, Dr. Aggarwal
has sought access to psilocybin, a hallucinogen and schedule

       investigational drug or any person who manufactures,
       distributes, prescribes, dispenses, introduces or
       delivers for introduction into interstate commerce, or
       provides to an eligible patient an eligible
       investigational drug pursuant to this section is in
       compliance with the applicable requirements set forth
       in sections 312.6, 312.7, and 312.8(d)(1) of title 21,
       Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor
       regulations) that apply to investigational drugs.
                              AIMS V. USDEA                          11


I controlled substance, for use in treating his patients’
anxiety and depression. See 21 U.S.C. § 812(c) (listing
psilocybin under schedule I). Given his lack of research
registration and the schedule I status of the drug, Dr.
Aggarwal has been unable to find a supplier willing to
provide him with psilocybin.
    In January 2021, Kathryn Tucker, counsel to AIMS and
Dr. Aggarwal, wrote to DEA seeking the Agency’s guidance
on “how DEA will accommodate RTT so that Dr. Aggarwal
and the AIMS Institute can obtain psilocybin for therapeutic
use with terminally ill patients.” The letter argued that
psilocybin qualified as an eligible investigational drug under
the RTT Act and described AIMS’s intention to purchase
psilocybin from Organix, “a company which holds an [active
investigational new drug application] for [psilocybin] and is
registered as a Distributor of [psilocybin].”
    DEA responded that, as “RTT does not waive the
requirements of any provision of the Controlled Substances
Act (CSA) or its implementing regulations,” DEA had “no
authority to waive any of CSA’s requirements pursuant to
RTT.” DEA then noted that Dr. Aggarwal could apply for
registration as a schedule I researcher pursuant to § 823(f) of
the CSA. AIMS and Dr. Aggarwal sought judicial review of
DEA’s response in this Court under 21 U.S.C. § 877. 4 AIMS

4
    21 U.S.C. § 877 states:
           All final determinations, findings, and conclusions of
           the Attorney General under this subchapter shall be
           final and conclusive decisions of the matters involved,
           except that any person aggrieved by a final decision of
           the Attorney General may obtain review of the
           decision in the United States Court of Appeals for the
12                         AIMS V. USDEA


I, 24 F.4th at 1251. This Court dismissed that action for lack
of jurisdiction, holding that DEA’s response was an
“informational letter of the sort that does not constitute final
agency action.” Id. at 1260.
    Following this Court’s decision in AIMS I, Tucker
submitted another letter to DEA on behalf of AIMS and Dr.
Aggarwal. In that letter, AIMS again stated that psilocybin
qualified as an eligible investigational drug under the RTT
Act, and that two of Dr. Aggarwal’s terminally ill patients
qualified as eligible patients. 5 AIMS asked DEA for
“authorization to access psilocybin for therapeutic use under
state and federal RTT Acts” and “immunity from
prosecution under the Controlled Substances Act.” AIMS
also asked the Agency, if it determined registration was
required under 21 U.S.C. § 823(f), to waive the registration
requirement via 21 U.S.C. § 822(d) rulemaking.
    In support of its request, AIMS argued that requiring Dr.
Aggarwal to obtain schedule I research registration would
violate the CSA. AIMS explained that DEA would refer any
registration request by Dr. Aggarwal to the FDA for
approval, and contended that DEA would thereby “re-
impose[] the FDA-approval requirement” for access to an
eligible investigational drug that Congress removed via the

         District of Columbia or for the circuit in which his
         principal place of business is located upon petition
         filed with the court and delivered to the Attorney
         General within thirty days after notice of the decision.
         Findings of fact by the Attorney General, if supported
         by substantial evidence, shall be conclusive.
5
  DEA does not contest that psilocybin qualifies as an eligible
investigational drug. The Agency describes psilocybin in its brief as
having “been studied as an investigational drug for the possible treatment
of anxiety and depression.”
                        AIMS V. USDEA                        13


RTT Act. By so doing, AIMS argued, DEA would be
violating the CSA’s savings provision, which prohibits DEA
from interpreting the CSA “as in any way affecting,
modifying, repealing, or superseding the provisions of the
[FDCA].” 21 U.S.C. § 902.
    AIMS also represented that “DEA has permitted access
to schedule I substances in similar circumstances throughout
its history,” citing DEA’s “support[ing] physician-initiated
therapeutic use of a schedule I cannabis-derived
experimental drug,” the seizure medication Epidiolex, “by
over 300 children under FDA’s expanded access program”
and “DEA’s support of single patient [investigational new
drugs] in the context of the Federal Medical Marijuana
Program.” AIMS additionally described DEA’s treatment of
“reverse distributors,” companies that take possession of
controlled substances from DEA-registered parties and
either return the substances to manufacturers or dispose of
them. AIMS maintained that DEA had “permitted [reverse
distributors] to handle controlled substances for years
without registration because ‘they were not considered an
essential link in the closed distribution system that the
Controlled Substances Act established.’” According to
AIMS, the Agency, rather than registering reverse
distributors or issuing exemptions via rulemaking, imposed
safety measures by entering into memoranda of
understanding (MOUs) with the companies. AIMS argued
that, like reverse distribution, Dr. Aggarwal’s proposed use
of a controlled substance to treat terminally ill patients under
the RTT was not an “essential link in the closed distribution
system” regulated by the CSA. Therefore, AIMS
maintained, Dr. Aggarwal should not be required to register
under the CSA. Instead, DEA “should impose whatever
14                    AIMS V. USDEA


diversion controls it deems necessary through an MOU with
Dr. Aggarwal.”
    DEA rejected AIMS’s request. DEA first responded to
AIMS and Dr. Aggarwal’s request with a single-page letter
stating that “DEA considers your latest correspondence as a
request for reconsideration” of DEA’s response to AIMS’s
2021 letter. DEA explained that it “finds no basis for
reconsideration of its February 12, 2021 letter because the
legal and factual considerations remain unchanged.” AIMS
responded by requesting confirmation that DEA’s answer
represented the Agency’s final decision rejecting their
requests.
    DEA answered on August 19, 2022, with a letter stating
that it was the Agency’s final decision concerning AIMS’s
requests. The Agency informed AIMS that “practitioners
who seek to dispense or possess schedule I controlled
substances must be properly registered as an approved
researcher in accordance with the CSA and its implementing
regulations.” The Agency explained that the RTT Act does
not “provide any exemptions from the CSA or its
implementing regulations” or “give the DEA authority to
waive CSA requirements.” For that reason, DEA explained,
“the CSA’s requirements to handle psilocybin for research
purposes remain in effect.”
    DEA went on to decline to initiate rulemaking under 21
U.S.C. § 822(d) to exempt Dr. Aggarwal’s desired activity
from the CSA’s registration requirements. The Agency
explained that “[as] a preliminary matter, because [AIMS]
did not provide DEA with the proposed text, or even the
scope, of the regulation [AIMS] purportedly seek[s]
pursuant to section 822(d), the Agency is unable to fully
assess [AIMS’s] proposal.” That reason aside, DEA
                          AIMS V. USDEA                           15


explained, Dr. Aggarwal’s desire to administer psilocybin to
patients was “not consistent with public health and safety.”
In support of this conclusion, DEA relied on Congress’s
determination, as codified in the CSA, that psilocybin has a
“high potential for abuse,” “no currently accepted medical
use in treatment in the United States,” and “a lack of
accepted safety for use . . . under medical supervision.” See
21 U.S.C. § 812(b)(1). Given psilocybin’s schedule I status,
and the conditions for schedule I research set out in 21
U.S.C. § 823(f), DEA concluded that Dr. Aggarwal’s
proposed therapeutic use of psilocybin was “too great a
departure from current law and inconsistent with public
health and safety.”
   Lastly, DEA stated that the “historical scenarios
involving schedule I controlled substances” cited by AIMS
were “consistent with this 21 U.S.C. [§] 823(f) framework”
and therefore did not support AIMS’s request. DEA
specifically addressed AIMS’s reference to the provision of
Epidiolex to children with seizure disorders, explaining that
“[w]hen that dispensing activity occurred, it was carried out
by practitioners who, unlike Dr. Aggarwal, were registered
with DEA to conduct research with schedule I controlled
substances.” The Agency concluded by again inviting Dr.
Aggarwal to apply for registration as a schedule I researcher.
On September 19, 2022, AIMS, Dr. Aggarwal, and two
patients timely filed a petition for review in this Court
pursuant to 21 U.S.C. § 877. 6

6
  From December 2022 to December 2023, this case was stayed pending
this Court’s decision in Aggarwal v. U. S. Drug Enf’t Admin., No. 22-
1718, 2023 WL 7101927 (9th Cir. Oct. 27, 2023). In Aggarwal, Dr.
Aggarwal challenged DEA’s decision denying his petition to initiate
16                        AIMS V. USDEA


                        II. DISCUSSION
  A. Final Agency Action
    Under 21 U.S.C. § 877, this Court has “original
jurisdiction over ‘final determinations, findings, and
conclusions of the Attorney General’ made under the CSA.”
Oregon v. Ashcroft, 368 F.3d 1118, 1120 (9th Cir. 2004)
(quoting 21 U.S.C. § 877); see also 28 C.F.R. § 0.100
(delegating the Attorney General’s authority to the
Administrator of the DEA). We first consider whether we
have jurisdiction under § 877 to review the DEA’s letter.
    The CSA does not define “final” as that term is used in
§ 877. In AIMS I, this Court adopted the Supreme Court’s
definition of “final” from Bennett v. Spear, 520 U.S. 154
(1997). AIMS I, 24 F.4th at 1256–57. Under Bennett, “two
conditions must be satisfied for agency action to be final.”
520 U.S. at 177. First, “the action must mark the
‘consummation’ of the agency’s decisionmaking process”
and not “be of a merely tentative or interlocutory nature.” Id.
at 177–78 (quoting Chi. & S. Air Lines v. Waterman S. S.
Corp., 333 U.S. 103, 113 (1948)). Second, “the action must
be one by which ‘rights or obligations have been
determined,’ or from which ‘legal consequences will flow.’”
Id. at 178 (quoting Port of Bos. Marine Terminal Ass’n v.
Rederiaktiebolaget Transatlantic, 400 U.S. 62, 71 (1970)).
    Under Bennett’s two-part test, DEA’s August 19, 2022,
response to AIMS’s letter constitutes final agency action.


rulemaking to transfer psilocybin from schedule I to schedule II. 2023
WL 7101927 at *1. This Court held that DEA’s explanation for its action
was inadequate and remanded to DEA “to either clarify its pathway for
denying Aggarwal’s petition or reevaluate Aggarwal’s petition on an
open record.” Id. at *1–2.
                       AIMS V. USDEA                       17


First, DEA’s denial of AIMS’s requests constituted the
reasoned “consummation” of the agency’s decisionmaking
process. As opposed to AIMS’s letter to DEA in AIMS I,
which sought the Agency’s “guidance” on the interaction
between the RTT Act and DEA’s regulation of psilocybin,
AIMS I, 24 F.4th at 1254–55, AIMS’s letter here “formally
request[ed] the agency’s authorization to obtain psilocybin
for therapeutic use for [Dr. Aggarwal’s] terminally ill
patients as well as immunity from prosecution for this
authorized therapeutic use.” The Agency’s response stated
that it “constitute[d] DEA’s final decision to deny the
requests made in [AIMS’s] February 10, 2022 letter.” That
the Agency “treat[ed] the document as its final view on the
matter” underscores that “the document reflects ‘the
consummation of the agency’s decisionmaking process’ and
not a ‘merely tentative’ position.” U.S. Fish & Wildlife Serv.
v. Sierra Club, Inc., 592 U.S. 261, 268–69 (2021) (quoting
Bennett, 520 U.S. at 177–78).
    Second, DEA’s decision challenged here, unlike the
response at issue in AIMS I, is one from which rights and
obligations flow. See Bennett, 520 U.S. at 178. AIMS asked
for formal authorization to access psilocybin and immunity
from prosecution. DEA denied both requests. The Agency’s
determination that the RTT Act did not waive the
requirements of the CSA was, as in AIMS I, a
“straightforward statement of [the Agency’s] ‘view of what
the law requires,’” and so would not, standing alone,
constitute final agency action. See AIMS I, 24 F.4th at 1261
(quoting Fairbanks N. Star Borough v. U.S. Army Corps of
Eng’rs, 543 F.3d 586, 594 (9th Cir. 2008)). But that
interpretation in this instance informed the Agency’s
decision to deny AIMS’s requests for authorization and
immunity, including through rulemaking under 21 U.S.C.
18                     AIMS V. USDEA


§ 822(d). Considered as a whole, DEA’s response
established AIMS’s rights—or lack thereof—to access
psilocybin.
   We conclude that DEA’s response satisfies § 877’s
requirement of finality. We therefore have jurisdiction to
decide whether that action was arbitrary and capricious.
  B. DEA’s Response
    Review of DEA actions is governed by the
Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 5 U.S.C. § 551 et seq.
See Fry v. Drug Enf’t Agency, 353 F.3d 1041, 1043 (9th Cir.
2003). Under the APA, an agency’s decision may be set
aside “only if arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion or
not in accordance with the law.” Id. (citing 5 U.S.C.
§ 706(2)(A)). Agency action is arbitrary and capricious if the
agency:

       has relied on factors which Congress has not
       intended it to consider, entirely failed to
       consider an important aspect of the problem,
       offered an explanation for its decision that
       runs counter to the evidence before the
       agency, or is so implausible that it could not
       be ascribed to a difference in view or the
       product of agency expertise.

Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Ass’n of the U.S. v. State Farm Mut.
Auto. Ins. Co., 463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983).
    Courts “generally must assess the lawfulness of an
agency’s action in light of the explanations the agency
offered for it rather than any ex post rationales.” Garland v.
Ming Dai, 593 U.S. 357, 369 (2021). We may affirm “a
decision of less than ideal clarity if the agency’s path may
                      AIMS V. USDEA                      19


reasonably be discerned.” Id. (quoting Bowman Transp., Inc.
v. Arkansas-Best Freight Sys., Inc., 419 U.S. 281, 286
(1974)). When reviewing an agency’s denial of a request to
engage in rulemaking, our review is “‘extremely limited’
and ‘highly deferential.’” Massachusetts v. E.P.A., 549 U.S.
497, 527–28 (2007) (quoting Nat’l Customs Brokers &
Forwarders Ass’n of Am., Inc. v. United States, 883 F.2d 93,
96 (D.C. Cir. 1989)).
    AIMS argues that DEA’s denial of its request to exempt
Dr. Aggarwal from registration under the CSA was arbitrary
and capricious. We disagree. The Agency articulated several
reasons for its denial of AIMS’s rulemaking request that,
taken together, provide a “‘reasonable explanation as to why
it cannot or will not exercise its discretion’ to initiate
rulemaking.” Compassion Over Killing v. U.S. Food & Drug
Admin., 849 F.3d 849, 857 (9th Cir. 2017) (quoting
Massachusetts v. E.P.A., 549 U.S. at 533).
    First, the Agency concluded that Dr. Aggarwal was
required to register under the CSA before providing
psilocybin to his patients. In so determining, the Agency
rejected AIMS’s argument that the RTT Act waived the
CSA’s registration requirements for Dr. Aggarwal’s desired
activity.
    AIMS contests DEA’s rejection of its statutory
interpretation argument as violative of the CSA’s savings
provision. That section directs that nothing in the CSA “be
construed as in any way affecting, modifying, repealing, or
superseding the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act.” 21 U.S.C. § 902. AIMS is correct that the
RTT Act is an amendment to the FDCA. See 21 U.S.C.
§ 360bbb-0a.      But    AIMS’s       argument     otherwise
20                     AIMS V. USDEA


misunderstands the relationship between the RTT Act, the
FDCA, and the CSA.
     The CSA and FDCA together govern access to
controlled substances for medical purposes. “Any person or
organization that produces or distributes prescription drugs
that are also controlled substances must comply with the
requirements of both the FDCA and the CSA.” AIMS I, 24
F.4th at 1254. The RTT Act provides that “[e]ligible
investigational drugs provided to eligible patients . . . are
exempt from” certain statutory and regulatory provisions
concerning the labelling, marketing, approval, and clinical
trials of drugs. 21 U.S.C. § 360bbb-0a(b). The CSA and its
related regulations are not included in the RTT Act’s
enumerated exemptions; the RTT Act does not mention the
CSA at all. See id. Although the RTT Act itself does not
require FDA approval for eligible patients to access eligible
investigational drugs, it does not exempt such drugs from the
FDA’s Attorney-General-delegated oversight pursuant to
the CSA. See id. § 360bbb-0a(d). So DEA’s continued
enforcement of the CSA’s registration requirements does not
“affect[], modify[], repeal, or supersed[e]” the FDCA as
amended by the RTT Act. Id. § 902.
    In its final decision letter, DEA explained that the RTT
Act amended the FDCA, not the CSA. Quoting from this
Court’s decision in AIMS I, DEA explained that “the RTT
‘did not give the DEA authority to waive CSA
requirements.’” As a result, DEA explained, “the CSA’s
requirements to handle psilocybin for research purposes
remain in effect.” DEA provided a clear and accurate
explanation of the interaction of the RTT Act and the CSA
as relevant to AIMS’s request. The Agency’s explanation of
the relationship between the two statutes was therefore
neither arbitrary nor capricious.
                            AIMS V. USDEA                                21


    Second, having found that the CSA applied to Dr.
Aggarwal’s proposed activity, the Agency explained that it
was “unable to fully assess” AIMS’s request for 21 U.S.C.
§ 822(d) rulemaking because AIMS “did not provide DEA
with the proposed text, or even the scope, of the regulation
[AIMS] purportedly seek[s] pursuant to section 822(d).” 7 As
AIMS points out, the CSA and DEA regulations do not
generally require petitioners to include the proposed text of
the regulations they desire under § 822(d). Nevertheless,
DEA’s reliance on the lack of clarity in AIMS’s request here
does not render its decision unreasonable or otherwise
arbitrary and capricious.
    AIMS’s letter to the DEA was unclear as to the specific
exemption it sought. In some places, AIMS asked the
Agency to exempt only Dr. Aggarwal. At other points,
AIMS seemed to request a broader exemption for
“physicians like Dr. Aggarwal who seek to administer
schedule I substances to ultimate users for therapeutic
purposes.” Similarly, although the letter suggested that DEA
could use MOUs to ensure safe provision of psilocybin to
patients, AIMS did not explain what conditions would be
appropriate under those MOUs. DEA’s assertion that the

7
  DEA argues that AIMS has waived its ability to contest this portion of
the agency’s response as AIMS failed to address it in its opening brief.
DEA contends that this Court should affirm its denial of AIMS’s petition
on this ground alone. Although issues not raised in a petitioner’s opening
brief are generally waived, this Court retains discretion to decide the
merits of an issue where “the government briefed it, and thus suffers no
prejudice from [the petitioner’s] failure to properly raise the issue.”
Mamouzian v. Ashcroft, 390 F.3d 1129, 1136 n.4 (9th Cir. 2004) (internal
quotation marks omitted). Here, the government briefed the issue beyond
“merely not[ing] that [petitioner] had failed to raise the issue.” Eberle v.
City of Anaheim, 901 F.2d 814, 818 (9th Cir. 1990). We therefore
consider the issue.
22                     AIMS V. USDEA


vagueness of AIMS’s request affected the Agency’s ability
to determine whether to grant it was not unreasonable.
      Third, DEA relied on Congress’s determination, as
codified in the CSA, that psilocybin has a “high potential for
abuse,” “no currently accepted medical use in treatment in
the United States,” and “a lack of accepted safety for use
. . . under medical supervision.” See 21 U.S.C. § 812(b)(1).
DEA additionally noted the conditions for schedule I
research registration under § 823(f) and concluded that Dr.
Aggarwal’s “proposal to abandon altogether [the CSA’s]
findings and limitations” with regard to the claimed
therapeutic use of psilocybin was “too great a departure from
current law and inconsistent with public health and safety.”
    DEA’s reasoning, albeit brief, meets the “low burden”
for denials of rulemaking petitions, especially given the
vague content of AIMS’s petition. See Compassion Over
Killing, 849 F.3d at 857. AIMS proposes to do exactly what
Congress via the CSA identified as neither safe nor accepted
by the medical community: provide psilocybin to patients for
medical use. The CSA “reflects a determination that
[schedule I substances have] no medical benefits worthy of
an exception (outside the confines of a Government-
approved research project).” United States v. Oakland
Cannabis Buyers’ Co-op., 532 U.S. 483, 491 (2001). That
§ 823(f) limits the use of schedule I substances by
practitioners to only “bona fide research” underscores
Congress’s view that these substances are unfit for regular
medical use.
   Despite the CSA’s treatment of schedule I drugs—and as
DEA’s concern about the “scope” of AIMS’s request
implies—AIMS did not demonstrate in its letter to the
Agency how its proposed use of psilocybin was consistent
                        AIMS V. USDEA                        23


with public health and safety. AIMS’s letter stated,
“psilocybin has shown enormous promise in early clinical
trials in relieving the debilitation [sic] anxiety and
depression suffered by terminally ill patients.” AIMS
provided no further information regarding the efficacy of
psilocybin and none regarding its safety. Nor did AIMS
describe the treatment plan Dr. Aggarwal envisioned or the
safety controls he would implement. Given AIMS’s
threadbare proposal, DEA’s substantive response was not
arbitrary and capricious.
    Contrary to AIMS’s submission, Gonzales v. O Centro
Espirita Beneficente Uniao do Vegetal, 546 U.S. 418 (2006),
does not foreclose DEA’s reliance on Congress’s findings
regarding schedule I drugs. O Centro involved the Religious
Freedom Restoration Act’s strict scrutiny test for
government actions that burden sincere religious exercise, a
heightened standard not at issue here. See 546 U.S. at 430.
O Centro held that “[u]nder the more focused inquiry
required by RFRA . . . the Government’s mere invocation of
the general characteristics of Schedule I controlled
substances, as set forth in the Controlled Substances Act,
cannot carry the day.” Id. at 432 (emphasis added). As AIMS
and Dr. Aggarwal raise no claim here requiring any form of
heightened scrutiny, O Centro is inapposite.
     Fourth, DEA did not, as AIMS argues, “fail[] to follow
its own precedent or fail[] to give a sufficient explanation for
failing to do so.” See Andrzejewski v. F.A.A., 563 F.3d 796,
799 (9th Cir. 2009). “Where the petitioner challenges the
agency’s action as inconsistent with the agency’s own
policies, we examine whether the agency has actually
departed from its policy and, if so, whether the agency has
offered a reasoned explanation for such departure.” Bahr v.
24                    AIMS V. USDEA


U.S. Env’t Prot. Agency, 836 F.3d 1218, 1229 (9th Cir.
2016).
     None of the three past practices identified by AIMS in
its letter to DEA—(1) DEA’s “support” for physicians’ use
of the drug Epidiolex, a seizure medication derived from the
schedule I drug cannabis, (2) DEA’s “support of single
patient [investigational new drugs] in the context of the
Federal Medical Marijuana Program,” and (3) DEA’s
treatment of “reverse distributors”—sanctioned departure
from the CSA’s registration requirements.
   As to its treatment of Epidiolex, DEA explained that
Epidiolex was dispensed “by practitioners who, unlike Dr.
Aggarwal, were registered with DEA to conduct research
with schedule I controlled substances.” That explanation was
consistent with the 21 U.S.C. § 823(f) registration regime
under which DEA advised Dr. Aggarwal to apply. AIMS
does not contest the sufficiency of that explanation.
    The remaining two examples raised in AIMS’s letter do
not constitute past practices from which DEA improperly
departed. See Bahr, 836 F.3d at 1229. In neither example did
the Agency exempt parties from the CSA’s registration
requirement. Nothing in the record indicates that the
physicians involved in the Federal Medical Marijuana
Program, also known as the “compassionate use” program,
were exempted from the CSA’s registration requirement via
DEA’s rulemaking authority under 21 U.S.C. § 822(d). The
testimony of a Federal Medical Marijuana Program
participant offered by AIMS describes the participant’s
administering physicians as being “licensed by FDA to
evaluate marijuana’s use as a glaucoma control drug.” This
description is in accord with DEA’s explanation in its
response that the “historical scenarios” cited by AIMS “were
                       AIMS V. USDEA                       25


consistent with [the] 21 U.S.C. [§] 823(f) framework.” See
James v. City of Costa Mesa, 700 F.3d 394, 402 (9th Cir.
2012) (describing the Federal Medical Marijuana Program
as “presumably authorized by the CSA’s limited
experimental research provision” and citing 21 U.S.C.
§ 823(f)).
    DEA’s treatment of reverse distributors similarly did not
involve the Agency exempting those companies from
applicable registration requirements. Importantly, reverse
distributors do not engage in the activity for which Dr.
Aggarwal sought an exemption: the provision of controlled
substances to patients by a physician who lacks DEA
registration. See Definition and Registration of Reverse
Distributors, 68 Fed. Reg. 41222, 41223 (July 11, 2003)
(describing the activities of reverse distributors). Reverse
distributors are DEA-registered companies that take
controlled substances from DEA-registered distributors and
practitioners and either return them to DEA-registered
manufacturers or destroy them. Id.; 21 C.F.R. § 1300.01(b).
At no point in the reverse distribution process are controlled
substances permitted to be possessed by non-DEA-
registered parties. See 21 C.F.R. § 1300.01(b); Definition
and Registration of Reverse Distributors, 68 Fed. Reg. at
41226–27.
    Contrary to AIMS’s argument, DEA did not “permit[]
[reverse distributors] to handle controlled substances for
years without registration because ‘they were not considered
an essential link [in] the closed distribution system
established by the Controlled Substances Act.’” In fact, the
Agency initially “opposed granting DEA registrations to
firms solely or primarily engaged in the disposal . . . of
controlled substances because they were not considered an
essential link in the closed distribution system that the
26                      AIMS V. USDEA


Controlled Substances Act established.” Definition and
Registration of Reverse Distributors, 68 Fed. Reg. at 41223.
In other words, the “not considered an essential link”
language on which AIMS relies was provided as a reason for
denying reverse distributors the ability to obtain DEA
registrations, not as a reason that no registration was required
for the distributors.
    Furthermore, contrary to AIMS’s contention, DEA did
not use MOUs to facilitate reverse distributors’ access to
controlled substances without registration, but as a means
“through which [reverse distributors were] granted DEA
registrations.” Id. Following the increased demand for
reverse distribution services, DEA first required reverse
distributors to register under the existing registration
requirements for distributors and subsequently registered
reverse distributors through MOUs that “specifie[d]
conditions which the reverse distributor must follow in
addition to the regulations that apply to distributors.” Id. In
2003, the Agency codified a new registration category for
reverse distributors, under which all reverse distributors are
required to register with the DEA. See id. (codified at 21
C.F.R. §§ 1300, 1301, 304, 1305, 1307).
    The difference between DEA’s prior actions and AIMS’s
requested exemption from any registration requirement
distinguishes this case from those in which this Court has
found an agency improperly departed from its past practices.
In Andrzejewski, for example, this Court held that the
National Transportation Safety Board’s (NTSB) failure to
give an Administrative Law Judge’s (ALJ) “implicit
credibility determination the requisite level of deference”
without explanation was “contrary to NTSB precedent and,
therefore, arbitrary and capricious.” 563 F.3d at 800. Critical
to that holding was the fact that NTSB had ignored its
                           AIMS V. USDEA                             27


established precedent of deferring to ALJ’s determinations
of credibility in similar circumstances. Id. at 799. Here, on
the other hand, AIMS points to no example of DEA having
granted an exemption from registration—or using MOUs as
substitute for registration—for activity similar to that which
it proposes. 8 So the Agency was not required to further
distinguish its decision from the examples cited by AIMS.
    Aside from providing adequate reasons for rejecting
AIMS’s requests in its letter, DEA did not arbitrarily and
capriciously ignore the argument raised in AIMS’s letter
concerning whether Dr. Aggarwal’s desired use of
psilocybin constituted an “essential link in the closed system
of distribution” established by the CSA. Agency action is
arbitrary and capricious where the agency has “entirely
failed to consider an important aspect of the problem.” Ctr.
for Biological Diversity v. U.S. Fish & Wildlife Serv., 807
F.3d 1031, 1043 (9th Cir. 2015) (quoting Pac. Coast Fed’n
of Fishermen’s Ass’ns, Inc. v. Nat’l Marine Fisheries Serv.,
265 F.3d 1028, 1034 (9th Cir. 2001)). As we have explained,
DEA has never adopted any “essential link” standard
regarding registration exemptions. The potential application
of such a standard was therefore not a pertinent



8
  In its briefing, AIMS points to two past exemptions from registration
granted by DEA: a regulation exempting “nondrug use of peyote in bona
fide religious ceremonies of the Native American Church” and a
settlement in which DEA agreed to permit a church to “import and use a
Schedule I drug for religious purposes.” AIMS did not raise these
precedents in its letters to DEA. As a general matter, a party “forfeits
arguments that are not raised during the administrative process.” Lands
Council v. McNair, 629 F.3d 1070, 1076 (9th Cir. 2010). Further, these
arguments fail because both, like O Centro, involve religious uses and
so trigger different legal standards.
28                     AIMS V. USDEA


consideration, and failing to discuss it was not arbitrary and
capricious.
    In sum, DEA’s response explained that “practitioners
who seek to dispense or possess schedule I controlled
substances must be properly registered as an approved
researcher in accordance with the CSA and its implementing
regulations.” The Agency also ably explained why it was
declining to exempt AIMS from the registration
requirement. Having considered and discussed the relevant
factors underlying its decision, DEA provided a “path” to its
decision that “can reasonably be discerned.” Managed
Pharmacy Care v. Sebelius, 716 F.3d 1235, 1251 (9th Cir.
2013). The Agency was not required to do more. See id.
                      CONCLUSION
    DEA’s decision to deny AIMS’s requests was neither
arbitrary nor capricious. We therefore deny AIMS’s petition
for review of the DEA’s decision.
     PETITION DENIED.
