          United States Court of Appeals
                       For the First Circuit


No. 23-2094

         LUIS F. BONNET and CARLOS R. BENÍTEZ MALDONADO,

                            Petitioners,

                                 v.

 MICHAEL GORDON WHITAKER, Administrator of the Federal Aviation
      Administration, and FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION,

                            Respondents.


                 PETITION FOR REVIEW OF AN ORDER OF
              THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD



                               Before

                    Kayatta, Selya, and Aframe,
                          Circuit Judges.


     Carlos A. Mercado-Rivera, with whom Mercado-Rivera Law
Offices was on brief, for petitioners.
     Brett D. Weingold, Manager, Appellate Practice, Aviation
Litigation Division, Office of the Chief Counsel, Federal Aviation
Administration, for respondents.


                         September 25, 2024
          SELYA, Circuit Judge.          The anthem of the United States

Air Force famously describes the sky as "the wild blue yonder."

Robert MacArthur Crawford, The U.S. Air Force (1947).            In fact,

though, the skies over which the United States has jurisdiction

are heavily regulated, and pilots must conform their conduct to

those regulations or suffer the consequences.

          Commercial flights are no exception.          They are subject

to a web of regulations administered by the Federal Aviation

Administration (FAA).     Here, two pilots — petitioners Luis F.

Bonnet and Carlos R. Benítez Maldonado — challenge an order of the

National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB or the Board), which

upheld a 270-day suspension of each pilot's license by the FAA for

piloting flights as air carriers or commercial operators without

the required certificates.      See 14 C.F.R. § 119.1; id. Part 135

(Part 135).     Concluding, as we do, that the FAA appropriately

characterized   the   flights   in   question   and   imposed   reasonable

sanctions, we deny the petition for review.

                                     I

          We briefly rehearse the relevant facts (many of which

have been stipulated by the parties) and then chronicle the travel

of the case.

                                     A

          These proceedings implicate a number of flights that

took place in April and May of 2019.        Both of the petitioners were


                                 - 2 -
pilots employed by Benítez Aviation, Inc. (BAI), which was the

parent company of Blue Aviation, LLC, a company licensed to conduct

commercial    helicopter   operations.      Benítez   did   double   duty,

serving not only as a pilot but also as the president of BAI.          Each

petitioner held Airline Transport Pilot (ATP) certificates, which

is the highest level of pilot certification issued by the FAA.

             At the time of the flights in question, BAI managed a

Cessna model 650, registration number N51JV (N51JV), that was owned

by Sky Global, LLC.     N51JV required two crewmembers to operate the

aircraft, had a passenger-seat configuration of up to twenty seats,

and had a payload capacity of 6,000 pounds or less.

             Bonnet acted as pilot-in-command (PIC) of N51JV on an

April 17 flight from San Juan to Simpson Bay, Sint Maarten and an

April 22 flight from Simpson Bay to San Juan (collectively, the

April flights).    Rudy Ghazal — also a BAI employee — was Bonnet's

second-in-command (SIC) on these flights.          In addition, Bonnet

acted as PIC for a May 23 flight from San Juan to Cozumel, Mexico,

and then on to Veracruz, Mexico and a May 24 flight from Veracruz

to   Santo   Domingo,   Dominican    Republic   (collectively,   the    May

flights).     Benítez served as Bonnet's SIC for the May flights.

Each petitioner received his regular salary — but no incremental

compensation — for the time periods that encompassed these flights.




                                    - 3 -
                                     B

            On September 27, 2019, the FAA notified the petitioners

through a Notice of Proposed Certificate Action that the FAA

proposed to suspend their ATP certificates for 270 days.          The FAA

alleged that the petitioners operated the April and May flights

either as direct air carriers or as commercial operators, carrying

at least one passenger for compensation or hire on each flight

without the proper training or certificates for that type of

flight.    On July 30, 2020, the FAA issued orders of suspension for

violations    of   14   C.F.R.   §§ 91.13(a),   119.5(g),   119.33(a)(2),

119.33(a)(3), 119.33(b)(2), 119.33(b)(3), 135.293(a), 135.293(b),

and 135.299(a).1

            The petitioners appealed the proposed suspensions to the

NTSB, see 49 U.S.C. §§ 1133(a)(1), 44709(d), and a hearing was

held before an administrative law judge (ALJ).        The parties called

witnesses, and a sheaf of documents was introduced into evidence

on motion of the FAA Administrator (the Administrator).               The

Administrator also called witnesses, including — among others —

Belkys Perez (Benítez's wife and a corporate officer of BAI), Fred

Gallo (who booked the April flights), Shamil Sandoval Colón (who

booked the May flights), and Rafael Muñiz (a passenger on the May




     1   The text of these regulations appears in Appendix A, infra.


                                   - 4 -
flights).      The petitioners themselves testified and called Ghazal

and Perez as witnesses.

            The documents admitted at the hearing disclose that

Gallo purchased the April flights for $10,500 and paid for them in

advance.    The invoice for those flights indicates that the amounts

billed were for "Airplane Operational Cost."                      The record further

shows   that    Muñiz    procured        the    May   flights     on   behalf    of   GSR

Management, LLC (GSR) for $36,500 and paid for those flights in

advance.       The invoice for the May flights indicates that the

amounts billed were for "Airplane Transportation."                          Each of the

flights had eight passengers on board.

            Perez testified as to her general knowledge of BAI's

operations.         She stated that she handled administrative matters

for the company, including flight bookings.                        According to her

testimony, she and Benítez never discussed BAI's business at home.

Finally, she admitted that in "emergencies" — a term that she never

attempted      to    define     —    BAI       provided     flights    to    "friend[s]

or . . . friend[s] of a friend," but she suggested that the company

typically attempted to refer these callers to firms licensed to

conduct commercial passenger flights.                   The ALJ found that Perez's

testimony      was     not    credible,         as    it    was   inconsistent        and

non-responsive.

            With      respect       to   the    April      flights,    Gallo    credibly

testified that he received the telephone number of BAI from a


                                           - 5 -
"client and friend."     The parties stipulated that this individual

was Farhad Ghaffar.     Gallo said that he had never flown with BAI

before.    When he received the telephone number from Ghaffar, he

called the office and told BAI what he wanted.           BAI quoted him a

price.    Gallo did not testify that he mentioned his friendship

with Ghaffar in his exchanges with BAI.             For her part, Perez

insisted that Ghaffar was close friends with Benítez and herself.

She acknowledged, though, that this friendship started through

their    aviation   business,   admitting    that   Ghaffar   was   first   a

"client, a customer, for the helicopters."

            As for the May flights, Sandoval Colón testified that

she was an administrative assistant for Prolat Entertainment,

which provided services to GSR.             She recounted that she was

discussing the difficulty that she had in finding a flight for GSR

when an acquaintance — who did not work at Prolat Entertainment

but was visiting the Prolat Entertainment facility — overheard her

conversation and referred her to BAI.         Relatedly, Muñiz testified

that, as the owner of Prolat Entertainment, he instructed Sandoval

Colón to book the flights upon this recommendation. Sandoval Colón

reached out to Benítez, who referred her to Perez for the booking.

As matters turned out, Muñiz was one of the passengers on the May

flights —    but he    did not speak to the pilots            or any other

representative of BAI prior to the flights.           The ALJ found both

Muñiz and Sandoval Colón to be credible.


                                  - 6 -
           After mulling this evidence, the ALJ upheld the FAA's

suspension order.      The petitioners appealed the ALJ's order to the

Board, which affirmed.        See Whitaker v. Bonnet, NTSB Ord. No.

EA-5962 (Oct. 27, 2023).        The NTSB held that the flights were

subject   to   the    requirements    for    air   carriers   or   commercial

operators because BAI was acting as a common carrier; that the ALJ

appropriately found a residual violation of 14 C.F.R. § 91.13(a);2

that the ALJ did not exhibit bias; and that the sanction — a

270-day suspension — was supportable.

           This timely petition for judicial review followed.

                                      II

           We begin our analysis by offering a decurtate summary of

the applicable regulations.      "Under the Federal Aviation Act, the

FAA Administrator holds responsibility for flight safety in civil

air commerce."       Rochna v. NTSB, 929 F.2d 13, 14 (1st Cir. 1991).

The FAA requires pilots providing commercial flight services to

the public to satisfy certain regulatory criteria.             See Decruz v.

Elwell, 751 F. App'x 1, 2 (D.C. Cir. 2018).          The stringency of the

criteria applied varies depending upon the type of flight.

           14 C.F.R. Part 91 (Part 91) describes the general minimum

operating and flight rules that must be followed.             Under 14 C.F.R.




     2  A residual violation is one that is "predicated on
violations of other regulations." GoJet Airlines, LLC v. FAA, 743
F.3d 1168, 1172 (8th Cir. 2014).


                                     - 7 -
§ 119.1, persons operating or intending to operate civil aircraft

as    "an   air   carrier         or   commercial       operator"       must    adhere       to

additional requirements — the ones applicable here being those

described in Part 135.

             An "air carrier" is defined as "a person who undertakes

directly     by   lease,         or    other    arrangement,       to    engage       in    air

transportation." 14 C.F.R. § 1.1. In turn, "[a]ir transportation"

is defined as "interstate, overseas, or foreign air transportation

or the transportation of mail by aircraft."                        Id.        "Foreign air

transportation"        is       defined    as    "the     carriage      by    aircraft       of

persons . . . as            a     common        carrier      for     compensation            or

hire . . . in commerce between a place in the United States and

any place outside of the United States, whether that commerce moves

wholly by aircraft or partly by aircraft and partly by other forms

of transportation."             Id.

             A    "commercial           operator"       is   "a    person           who,    for

compensation or hire, engages in the carriage by aircraft in air

commerce of persons or property, other than as an air carrier."

Id.    When common carriage is not involved (that is, when a flight

is    operated    by   a        "commercial     operator"     rather         than    an    "air

carrier"), the flight is not subject to the rules under Part 135

as long as it qualifies for one of the exceptions listed in 14

C.F.R. § 91.501(b).             See Appendix A, infra.




                                           - 8 -
                                           III

               The NTSB "possesses jurisdiction to review certain [FAA]

orders,    including . . . order[s]              of     suspension       [of     pilot

certificates]."         See Moshea v. NTSB, 570 F.3d 349, 351 (D.C. Cir.

2009). The Federal Aviation Act authorizes review of orders issued

by the FAA and reviewed by the NTSB in "the court of appeals of

the United States for the circuit in which [the petitioners]

reside[] or ha[ve] [their] principal place of business." 49 U.S.C.

§ 46110(a).       Because the petitioners reside in Puerto Rico, this

court has jurisdiction over the instant petition.

               As a reviewing court, our role is tightly circumscribed.

"Under our very narrow standard of review, we must uphold the

Board's decision if it is not 'arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of

discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law.'"                         Hite v.

NTSB,    991     F.2d   17,    20   (1st    Cir.      1993)   (quoting    5     U.S.C.

§ 706(2)(A)).

               "The Federal Aviation Act provides that for purposes of

review by the courts of appeals '[t]he findings of fact by the

[NTSB], . . . if        supported    by     substantial       evidence,   shall     be

conclusive.'"      Twomey v. NTSB, 821 F.2d 63, 67 n.5 (1st Cir. 1987)

(first    alteration      in   original)(quoting         49   U.S.C.   § 1486(e)).

Substantial evidence is "such relevant evidence as a reasonable

mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion."                   Penobscot

Air Servs., Ltd. v. FAA, 164 F.3d 713, 718 (1st Cir. 1999) (quoting


                                       - 9 -
Universal Camera Corp. v. NLRB, 340 U.S. 474, 477 (1951)); accord

Quinn v. Hinson, 107 F.3d 1 (Table), at *3 (1st Cir. 1996).                  Under

the substantial evidence test, "we simply determine whether the

agency could fairly and reasonably find the facts as it did."

Hite, 991 F.2d at 18 n.1 (quoting Chritton v. NTSB, 888 F.2d 854,

856 (D.C. Cir. 1989)).            "[S]ubstantial evidence to support an

agency   finding      may    exist   'even    though    suggested     alternative

conclusions     may     be     equally   or    even     more   reasonable     and

persuasive.'"       Removatron Int'l Corp. v. FTC, 884 F.2d 1489, 1496

(1st Cir. 1989) (alteration in original) (quoting Montgomery Ward

& Co. v. FTC, 691 F.2d 1322, 1327 (9th Cir. 1982)); accord Quinn,

107 F.3d 1 (Table), at *3.           When there is conflicting testimony,

"[i]ssues of credibility and the drawing of permissible inference

from evidentiary facts are the prime responsibility of the [ALJ]."

Rodriguez v. Sec'y of Health & Hum. Servs., 647 F.2d 218, 222 (1st

Cir. 1981) (first alteration in original) (quoting Rodriguez v.

Celebrezze, 349 F.2d 494, 496 (1st Cir. 1965)).

                                         IV

           The NTSB's decision hinges on the FAA's determination

that the petitioners piloted the April and May flights without

possessing    the     certifications     required      under   Part   135.     The

petitioners posit that the NTSB's analysis was misguided because

the flights should have been governed by the requirements of Part

91 (not Part 135).          They are foraging in an empty cupboard.


                                      - 10 -
             The FAA argues persuasively that the petitioners were

acting as "air carriers," a term which — as discussed above —

imputes the subject's status as a "common carrier."              See Flytenow,

Inc. v. FAA, 808 F.3d 882, 886 (D.C. Cir. 2015).               Even though the

statute does not define "common carrier," it is a "well-known term

that comes . . . from the common law."            CSI Aviation Servs., Inc.

v. U.S. Dep't of Transp., 637 F.3d 408, 415 (D.C. Cir. 2011).

             The FAA relies on a definition of "common carrier" that

is provided in a 1986 Advisory Circular.               See Flytenow, Inc., 808

F.3d   at   886   (citing     FAA,   Advisory   Circular     120-12A,   Private

Carriage Versus Common Carriage of Persons or Property (1986)(FAA

Advisory Circular)).         The elements of "common carriage" as defined

in   the    FAA   Advisory    Circular   are    "(1)    a   holding   out   of   a

willingness to (2) transport persons or property (3) from place to

place (4) for compensation."          Id. at 886-87.

             The FAA Advisory Circular is not binding on this court.

Regardless, we hold that the FAA's definition largely comports

with our historical understanding of the term. We have interpreted

the term "common carrier," in pertinent part, as describing an

entity that "provides its services indiscriminately to any[one]

who wants them."      Fayard v. Ne. Vehicle Servs., LLC, 533 F.3d 42,

46 (1st Cir. 2008).      Other courts of appeals have read the term as

encompassing a "commercial transportation enterprise that 'holds

itself out to the public'" as willing to transport persons or


                                     - 11 -
property for compensation.   CSI Aviation Servs., 637 F.3d at 415

(quoting Common Carrier, Black's Law Dictionary (8th ed. 2004));

see N.Y. Susquehanna & W. Ry. Corp. v. Jackson, 500 F.3d 238, 251

(3d Cir. 2007) ("Susquehanna holds itself out . . . [and] does, in

fact, haul waste for multiple customers; and there is no evidence

of it turning away a customer.").   Notwithstanding the differences

in wording, our definition of "common carrier" accords with the

definitions employed by our sister circuits.        And our sister

circuits have similarly held — as do we — that the FAA Advisory

Circular's definition is consistent.      See Woolsey v. NTSB, 993

F.2d 516, 523 (5th Cir. 1993) (concluding that FAA Advisory

Circular definition of "common carrier" is "in relevant respect

the same as that found at common law").

          In the case at hand, the record makes manifest that the

April and May flights transported persons from place to place, and

these two elements are not disputed by any party.   The two pivotal

questions, then, are whether there was a "holding out" and whether

the flights were "for compensation."       If substantial evidence

supports a conclusion that both of these criteria are satisfied,

then the NTSB appropriately found that the flights were operated

by a common carrier.   We turn next to those questions.

                                A

          We start with the question of whether the FAA proved by

substantial evidence a "holding out."   Neither the statute nor any


                              - 12 -
regulation defines "holding out."             To fill this void, the FAA

relies on the common law meaning of this term.               Flytenow, Inc.,

808 F.3d     at 892.      Thus, the holding out may be "either by

advertising or by actually engaging in the business of carriage

for hire."    Arrow Aviation, Inc. v. Moore, 266 F.2d 488, 490 (8th

Cir. 1959); see Riegelsberger v. Air Evac EMS, Inc., 970 F.3d 1061,

1065 (8th Cir. 2020); United States v. Jones, 712 F.2d 1316, 1322

(9th Cir. 1983). The petitioners do not dispute the FAA's reliance

on the common law meaning of "holding out."

            Importantly,    "[a]    carrier    need   not    solicit"   paying

passengers in order to be found to be "holding out."            United States

v. Stephen Bros. Line, 384 F.2d 118, 123 n.14 (5th Cir. 1967).              To

constitute holding out, "it is sufficient that the carrier 'became

known generally'" as available to carry passengers for hire.                Id.

(quoting Transp. by Mendez & Co., Between U.S. and Puerto Rico, 2

U.S.M.C. 717, 720 (1944)).         Put another way, "[c]arriers are held

to   be    common   if    they   have   'held    out,   by     a   course   of

conduct . . . .'"        Id. (quoting Transp. by Se. Terminal & S.S.

Co., 2 U.S.M.C. 795, 796 (1946)).

            Both the ALJ and the Board found that the elements of

"holding out" were present with respect to the April and May

flights.     They noted that different individuals on different

occasions referred the passengers on the flights to BAI as an




                                    - 13 -
enterprise   that   would    be    willing   to     provide    them     with

transportation services.     We agree.

          The petitioners demur, emphasizing two points that they

insist are fatal to a finding of "holding out."        First, they claim

that the passengers on the flights were "families and friends and

relatives" of the aircraft's owners. But this testimony was deemed

not credible by the ALJ, and the record makes manifest that it

rests on an inaccurate view of the facts.            In short, what the

petitioners claim and what the record reveals are quite different.

          Both petitioners testified that they had never flown

with any of the passengers prior to the flights in question.             So,

too, when Perez — the person who completed the bookings — was

questioned about whether she asked potential customers calling for

a quote if they were the aircraft owners' family, friends, or

friends of friends, she replied that she "do[es] not need to do

that."   This    evidence,   coupled with    the testimony      of Gallo,

Sandoval Colón, and Muñiz indicating that they did not have a

pre-existing relationship with BAI or the aircraft owners, makes

pellucid that it was reasonable to find that BAI went well beyond

transporting family and friends and held itself out as available

to the public.

          The petitioners' second riposte is no more persuasive.

They point out that BAI did not advertise itself as operating

commercial   flights   and    that,    therefore,     the     holding    out


                                  - 14 -
requirement     was    not   satisfied.        The   fact   that   they   did   not

advertise seems to be borne out by the record — but it does not

take the petitioners very far. As the FAA has consistently stated,

"[p]hysically holding out without advertising where a reputation

to serve all is gained is sufficient to constitute an offer to

carry all customers. . . . [T]he expression of willingness to all

customers with whom contact is made that the operator can and will

perform   the   requested      service    is    sufficient."        FAA   Advisory

Circular.

            This is such a case:             the finding that BAI had such a

reputation was supported by substantial evidence.                   For example,

with respect to the May flights, the witness who booked the flights

on behalf of the passengers testified that she was referred to BAI

through "a casual conversation from an acquaintance at the office"

who "overheard [the witness] discussing looking for a quote for a

flight from San Juan to Veracruz and Veracruz to DR."                           The

acquaintance added that she should "just give Carlos Benítez,

Benítez     Aviation    a    call."       Accordingly,      we     conclude     that

substantial evidence supports the finding that there was a "holding

out."

                                         B

            This brings us to the question of whether the FAA proved

by substantial evidence the "compensation" element of the "common

carrier" test.        The petitioners contend that the passengers were


                                      - 15 -
billed solely for "operational costs" rather than for any profit

to BAI.    The record, however, contains substantial evidence to the

contrary.       For example, the invoice for the May flights does not

indicate    a       breakdown    in    costs      but   simply    lists    charges   for

"Airplane Transportation."              What is more, the flight invoices were

paid in advance.         Although Perez testified that she researched the

costs before preparing the bills and that there was no profit, the

ALJ   supportably        found     that   this     testimony      was    not   credible.

Moreover, these invoices — as the ALJ again supportably found —

could not have reflected the actual costs incurred.                       For instance,

the actual costs for fuel could be determined only after the fuel

was consumed.

            In all events, a bill for operational costs is sufficient

to    establish       the   "for      hire"    element    of     the    common   carrier

construct.          "[T]here can be compensation where the payment covers

only costs and no actual profit is shown."                             Administrator v.

Rountree,       2    NTSB   1712,     1713-14      (1975).       Consequently,       even

supposing that the amounts paid by the passengers were solely for

costs and that BAI made no profit, these flights would still be

deemed to have been operated for hire (and, thus, by a common

carrier).

                                              C

            We add a coda.             Even if BAI did not "hold itself out"

and, therefore, the flights were not operations by an air carrier,


                                          - 16 -
that would not defeat the FAA's order.       Part 135 applies to both

air   carriers    and   commercial   operators.   The   "holding   out"

requirement does not pertain to commercial operators.        The only

criteria that need be met are that the flights be operated "for

compensation or hire," 14 C.F.R. § 1.1, and not be subject to one

of the exceptions in 14 C.F.R. § 91.501(b).       The flights at issue

here were manifestly operated for hire, and none of the exceptions

(limned in Appendix A, infra) apply to them.      It follows that the

flights were at least flown by commercial operators and, thus,

were subject to the requirements of Part 135.       See Manin v. NTSB,

627 F.3d 1239, 1243 n.1 (D.C. Cir. 2011) ("[W]hen 'there is not

the slightest uncertainty as to the outcome of a proceeding' on

remand, courts can affirm an agency decision on grounds other than

those provided in the agency decision." (quoting Envirocare of

Utah, Inc. v. Nuclear Regul. Comm'n, 194 F.3d 72, 79 (D.C. Cir.

1999))).

                                     V

           Of course, as the petitioners point out, it is their

licenses that are at risk here.           BAI is not a party to this

proceeding.      With this in mind, the petitioners argue that BAI's

role supersedes any claim of liability against them:      they contend

that BAI's absence as a party is fatal to the case; that they

lacked knowledge that the flights were Part 91 flights because BAI

was in charge of the bookings and the petitioners were merely line


                                 - 17 -
pilots; and that they did not receive compensation personally for

the flights and, therefore, fall outside the ambit of Part 135.

These contentions encounter strong headwinds.

                                       A

            The    petitioners     first    argue    that   the    NTSB   lacked

jurisdiction to issue the order from which they appeal because

that   order      necessarily    involved     drawing   factual     conclusions

regarding BAI — an entity that had neither been joined as a party

nor subpoenaed to appear.          This argument need not detain us.

            As we already have made clear, see supra Part III, the

NTSB has jurisdiction to review pilot-suspension orders issued by

the FAA.    See Moshea, 570 F.3d at 351.            Although the general rule

is that a tribunal lacks the power to make a binding adjudication

of the rights of litigants not before it, see Hansberry v. Lee,

311 U.S. 32, 40 (1940), the NTSB has not offended that general

rule in this instance.          Even though certain factual findings made

in this proceeding concern BAI, those findings do not bind BAI.

Indeed, BAI has entered into a separate settlement with the FAA.

See Nat'l Ass'n of Chain Drug Stores v. New Eng. Carpenters Health

Benefits Fund, 582 F.3d 30, 42 (1st Cir. 2009) ("Due process

'obviously does not mean . . . that a court may never issue a

judgment that, in practice, affects a nonparty.'" (alteration in

original)   (quoting      Provident    Tradesmens       Bank   &   Tr.    Co.   v.

Patterson, 390 U.S. 102, 110 (1968))).


                                     - 18 -
           If more were needed — and we doubt that it is — this

claim appears, at bottom, to be a claim that BAI's due process

rights have been infringed.   BAI is not a party to this proceeding,

and the petitioners have not alleged any facts sufficient to show

that they have any right to assert third-party standing.       See,

e.g., Freeman v. Town of Hudson, 714 F.3d 29, 39 (1st Cir. 2013)

(explaining that third-party standing requires hindrance to third

party's ability to protect his or her own interests).

           To the extent that the petitioners are arguing that there

was a fatal failure to join BAI, that argument is untenable.

Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 19(a)(1)(A) requires that a person

be joined as a party only if, "in that person's absence, the court

cannot accord complete relief among existing parties." Here, there

is no reason why complete relief cannot be afforded in the absence

of BAI.    Not surprisingly, then, this type of case is routinely

prosecuted and decided with just the pilots as the responding

parties.   See, e.g., Woolsey, 993 F.2d 516; Moshea, 570 F.3d 349.

                                 B

           BAI's role in orchestrating these flights — and the

petitioners' claimed lack of knowledge of BAI's actions — does not

aid the petitioners.    The petitioners submit that BAI (through

Perez) handled all administrative matters.       Consequently, the

petitioners say that they did not know whether the flights were

being operated improperly.    But pilots have a responsibility to


                               - 19 -
adhere affirmatively to the governing regulations. Under 14 C.F.R.

§ 91.3, a PIC of an aircraft is "directly responsible for, and is

the final authority as to, the operation of that aircraft."                       The

petitioners should have taken steps to learn what type of flight

they were flying.            See Cappello v. Duncan Aircraft Sales of Fla.,

Inc., 79 F.3d 1465, 1468 (6th Cir. 1996); Davis v. United States,

824 F.2d 549, 551 (7th Cir. 1987) ("The pilot . . . must be aware

of those facts which are material to [the aircraft's] operation.")

(quoting Redhead v. United States, 686 F.2d 178, 182 (3d Cir.

1982)).

            Taking       a     struthious   approach       is   not   an   effective

defense.         The petitioners cannot avoid these requirements by

sticking their heads in the sand.

            The record is replete with substantial evidence that the

petitioners shirked this responsibility.                    For example, Bonnet

stated to an FAA investigator that he did not "ask too many

questions" about the passengers on the flights because he worked

for "rich people." As for Benítez, the record demonstrates conduct

well beyond a simple failure to inquire; it strongly suggests that

he in fact knew the flights were not Part 91 flights.                           Perez

admitted that she and Benítez were married, and the ALJ supportably

found     that     her    testimony     that      they   did    not   discuss     any

administrative matters regarding Benítez's own company at home was

not   credible.          And    when   Sandoval    Colón    reached    out   to   BAI


                                        - 20 -
initially, she spoke with Benítez.              He then referred her to Perez

to complete her booking.           At a bare minimum, Benítez knew that

callers were contacting BAI to book these types of flights and he

facilitated that conduct.

                                          C

             Relatedly, the petitioners posit that — because it was

BAI that was paid for the flights — they were not operating the

flights for compensation or hire.                 Thus, they suggest that the

Part 135 requirements are not applicable to them.

             We do not agree.          As the FAA persuasively argues, once

it has been shown that the flight was operated by a common carrier,

the    issue     of   whether    the     pilots    themselves    were   directly

compensated is not dispositive.

             In all events, it is luminously clear that the pilots

were compensated.          To begin, Benítez was — at all relevant times

— the president of BAI.            It is self-evident that through this

direct stake he was compensated for the flights.                And at any rate,

for a pilot, the payment of his salary is sufficient to establish

compensation.         See Las Vegas Hacienda, Inc. v. Civ. Aeronautics

Bd., 298 F.2d 430, 440 (9th Cir. 1962) (rejecting argument that

employee petitioner, acting as "salaried employee," should not

have been subject to cease-and-desist order against corporate

petitioner and holding that he was subject to Federal Aviation Act

if    he   was   engaged    in   air   transportation).      Even    though   the


                                       - 21 -
petitioners, qua pilots, were not paid extra, they were plainly

conducting        these    flights       in   the       ordinary       course     of    their

employment, for which they were paid.                    And the record establishes

that   the   pilots        were    reimbursed          for    the     costs   incurred    in

conducting the flights, such as hotel stays.                           As we have said,

such reimbursement, in and of itself, is sufficient to establish

compensation.        See Rountree, 2 NTSB at 1713-14.                    On this record,

then, there was substantial evidence that both of the petitioners

were compensated for the flights.                      The petitioners cannot hide

behind BAI to escape the consequences of their own actions.

                                              VI

             We     turn    to     the    remaining           issues     raised    by     the

petitioners.

                                              A

             The petitioners' argument that the NTSB                            erroneously

found a residual violation of 14 C.F.R. § 91.13(a) is groundless.

They argue that the FAA did not independently establish that the

challenged conduct was careless or reckless.                        The agency responds

that no such showing is necessary:                           a residual or derivative

violation is inherently shown when pilots fail to comply with FAA

operational regulations.             Precedent staunchly supports the FAA's

position.     See Jackson v. NTSB, 114 F.3d 283, 287-88 (D.C. Cir.

1997); GoJet Airlines, LLC v. FAA, 743 F.3d 1168, 1172 (8th Cir.

2014);   Administrator        v.    Clark,         7   NTSB    434,    436    (1990).      We


                                          - 22 -
therefore uphold the NTSB's ruling that the petitioners violated

14 C.F.R. § 91.13(a).3

                                       B

           The petitioners have another shot in their sling.                They

contend   that   the   ALJ   engaged       in   inappropriate    conduct    that

demonstrated bias and affected the outcome of the appeal.                  We do

not agree.

           We first confront a threshold issue.                 The FAA argues

that any objections to the ALJ's conduct are waived because they

were not raised during the hearing.               See 49 U.S.C. § 46110(d)

(stating that courts of appeal "may consider an objection to the

order of the [FAA] . . . only if the objection was made in the

proceeding conducted . . . or if there was a reasonable ground for

not making the objection in the proceeding").               The petitioners

offer no reasonable explanation for this failure and, therefore,

their objections are waived.       See Gorman v. NTSB, 558 F.3d 580,




     3  In passing, the petitioners suggest that the FAA's
allegation does not specify whether they were "careless" or
"reckless," with the result that the "unprecise allegation"
violates due process. It is not readily apparent how an allegation
can violate due process. But we need not linger long over this
query:   a due process challenge to the NTSB's holding that the
petitioners violated section 91.13(a) is plainly futile.       Due
process demands that the parties have "fair notice" of what is
required by the applicable regulation. Draper v. Healey, 827 F.3d
1, 3-4 (1st Cir. 2016).    In this instance, the petitioners had
fair notice of what was required of them, which was simply to
comply with the clear text of the other regulations cited by the
FAA.


                                  - 23 -
591    (D.C.    Cir.   2009)   ("Because      Gorman        failed    to   raise   this

objection before the NTSB, and offers no reasonable ground for

this failure, we conclude that he has waived the objection.").

               Even were we disposed to excuse the petitioners' waiver

— and we are not — they have not carried their burden of showing

bias.    "An impartial decisionmaker is, of course, a fundamental

component of due process."            Beauchamp v. De Abadia, 779 F.2d 773,

776 (1st Cir. 1985).       But "[a]bsent some showing of abuse, the ALJ

is presumed free from bias," Soule Glass and Glazing Co. v. NLRB,

652 F.2d 1055, 1112 (1st Cir. 1981), because of the "presumption

that    [adjudicators]         are    '[people        of] . . . conscience          and

intellectual       discipline,        capable    of     judging        a   particular

controversy      fairly   on    the   basis     of    its    own     circumstances,'"

Bettencourt v. Bd. of Registration in Med., 904 F.2d 772, 780 n.10

(1st Cir. 1990) (quoting Withrow v. Larkin, 421 U.S. 35, 55 (1975))

(internal quotation marks omitted).                  See Valley v. Rapides Par.

Sch. Bd., 118 F.3d 1047, 1052-53 (5th Cir. 1997) (holding that, to

show bias, petitioners must overcome both "the presumption of

honesty and integrity of the adjudicators" and "the presumption

that those making decisions affecting the public are doing so in

the public interest").

               A charge of bias is not lightly to be embraced, and a

showing of bias requires something more than merely showing that

the adjudicator has not accorded the parties kid-glove treatment.


                                       - 24 -
"'[R]emarks during the course of trial that are critical or

disapproving of, or even hostile to, counsel, the parties, or their

cases' are usually insufficient to prove bias [, and t]he same is

true of a court's 'expressions of impatience, dissatisfaction,

annoyance, and even anger.'"       United States v. Caramadre, 807 F.3d

359, 375 (1st Cir. 2015) (quoting Liteky v. United States, 510

U.S. 540, 555-56 (1994)).        ALJs, in particular, must be allowed

substantial    latitude     in   conducting       hearings    and   examining

witnesses.    See 49 C.F.R. § 821.35(b)(1), (8).              Bias cannot be

established   merely   by   showing   that    "the    ALJ    interrupted   the

questioning and posed his own questions" when there is no evidence

that "bias or prejudice stemmed from an 'extrajudicial source.'"

Lackey v. FAA, 386 F. App'x 689, 694, 696 (9th Cir. 2010).

          To show bias, then, the proponent must put some meat on

the bones.    Examples of when decisionmakers are "constitutionally

unacceptable" by reason of bias include when they have a "direct,

personal, and substantial pecuniary interest in the outcome of a

case," N.Y. State Dairy Foods, Inc. v. Ne. Dairy Compact Comm'n,

198 F.3d 1, 13 (1st Cir. 1999), or when they have "been the target

of personal abuse or criticism from the party before [them],"

United States v. Pina, 844 F.2d 1, 13 (1st Cir. 1988) (quoting

Withrow, 421 U.S. at 47).

          In the case at hand, the petitioners accuse the ALJ of

"assum[ing    the]   role   of   advocate   for    the   FAA's   case,"    thus


                                   - 25 -
"revealing his bias."       But the record belies this accusation:            the

petitioners point to no facts suggesting that the ALJ had a

personal or pecuniary interest in the case.               Nor do they identify

any facts tending to show that he was the target of personal abuse

or criticism by any of the parties.                At bottom, they suggest no

"extrajudicial source" influencing his conduct but, rather, simply

recount instances in which he questioned witnesses to clarify the

record.     And in the instances identified by the petitioners, the

ALJ gave both parties the opportunity to continue questioning and

to rehabilitate the witnesses.

            That    ends   this   aspect      of    the   matter.   The      ALJ's

even-handed course of conduct was well within the proper sphere of

his authority.4       The allegation of bias is, therefore, wholly

unsupported, and the petitioners' claim is dead on arrival.

                                       C

            The petitioners' final plaint focuses on the sanction

imposed.      The   ALJ    ordered   that   the     pilot's   license   of    each

petitioner be suspended for 270 days, and the NTSB affirmed that

sanction.     The petitioners complain that there was insufficient

evidence of aggravating factors to justify so lengthy a sanction.




     4 This is especially true in administrative cases where the
ALJ is the only adjudicator. Many of the authorities relied on by
the petitioners, including United States v. Koerber, 10 F.4th 1083
(10th Cir. 2021), discuss criminal trials, with emphasis on the
impact of the judge's conduct on the jury.


                                     - 26 -
We reject this complaint and hold that the FAA's imposition of

sanctions was appropriate.

            Both the NTSB and this court must adhere to the FAA's

remedy unless it is "unwarranted in law or is without justification

in fact." Pham v. NTSB, 33 F.4th 576, 583 (D.C. Cir. 2022) (quoting

Am. Power & Light Co. v. SEC, 329 U.S. 90, 112-13 (1946)).                 The

FAA typically relies on the publicly available FAA Order 2150.3C

for   selecting    sanctions.     Aggravating   and    mitigating   factors

listed in FAA Order 2150.3C include:               the degree of hazard,

violation history, level of certificate and experience, compliance

disposition of the violator, whether the violation is isolated or

repeated,    subsequent    corrective    action,    inadvertence    of    the

violation, voluntary reporting of violations, and prior criminal

convictions for similar conduct.

            Viewed against this backdrop, the petitioners' complaint

that the agency did not present sufficient evidence of aggravating

factors to justify the 270-day suspension rings hollow. The record

leaves no doubt that aggravating factors were present.                   These

include     that   the   April   and   May   flights   were   transporting

passengers, that the petitioners had ATP certificates, that they

knew or should have known that the flights were undertaken without

the appropriate certificates in place, and that the petitioners

each flew multiple flights.            Each of these facts was either

included in the parties' stipulations or conclusively demonstrated


                                   - 27 -
in the documentary record.       The petitioners cannot now claim that

there   is    insufficient    evidence    supporting       these   aggravating

factors    when   they    themselves    agreed    to     the   truth   of     these

allegations before the NTSB.

             The short of it is that the sanctions are not only

compliant with FAA Order 2150.3C but also within the universe of

reasonable sanctions for the petitioners' regulatory violations.

After all, "[i]mplicit in the issuance of an [ATP] rating and

certificate     is   [the   FAA's]   finding     that    the   holder    thereof

possesses the degree of judgment required of a [PIC]."                 Specht v.

Civ. Aeronautics Bd., 254 F.2d 905, 916 (8th Cir. 1958).                     When —

as in this case — a pilot violates safety regulations without

justification, a suspension is typically thought to be a condign

remedy.      See Rochna, 929 F.2d at 15 (expounding upon FAA's long

history of using suspensions as "deterrence" for "violation[s] of

[federal     aviation     regulations]"       (quoting     Pangburn     v.     Civ.

Aeronautics Bd., 311 F.2d 349, 354 (1st Cir. 1962), then Hill v.

NTSB, 886 F.2d 1275, 1281 (10th Cir. 1989)).

             Here, moreover, the petitioners had the highest level of

pilot certification, which implicitly comes with the highest level

of responsibility.       So, too, flying passengers, rather than cargo,

comes with heightened expectations because of the risk to human

life.     The petitioners shirked these responsibilities on several

occasions, each time failing to ensure that the flights that they


                                     - 28 -
were conducting were consistent with the FAA's safety regulations.

And — as the ALJ observed — revocation, rather than suspension, is

a common sanction in these circumstances.    Thus, we cannot say

that the sanctions imposed are unwarranted at law or without

justification in fact.

                               VII

          We need go no further. For the reasons elucidated above,

the petition for review is



Denied.




                             - 29 -
                            Appendix A

               Text of Code of Federal Regulations

14 C.F.R. § 91.13(a):   "No person may operate an aircraft in a
careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property
of another."

14 C.F.R. § 119.5(g):     "No person may operate as a direct air
carrier or as a commercial operator without, or in violation of,
an    appropriate    certificate    and   appropriate    operations
specifications. No person may operate as a direct air carrier or
as a commercial operator in violation of any deviation or exemption
authority,   if   issued   to   that   person  or   that   person's
representative."

14 C.F.R. § 119.33(a)(2): "A person may not operate as a direct
air carrier unless that person . . . [o]btains an Air Carrier
Certificate."

14 C.F.R. § 119.33(a)(3): "A person may not operate as a direct
air   carrier  unless   that   person . . . [o]btains   operations
specifications that prescribe the authorizations, limitations, and
procedures under which each kind of operation must be conducted."

14 C.F.R. § 119.33(b)(2):     "A person other than a direct air
carrier may not conduct any commercial passenger or cargo aircraft
operation for compensation or hire under part 121 or part 135 of
this chapter unless that person . . . [o]btains an Operating
Certificate."

14 C.F.R. § 119.33(b)(3):     "A person other than a direct air
carrier may not conduct any commercial passenger or cargo aircraft
operation for compensation or hire under part 121 or part 135 of
this chapter unless that person . . . [o]btains operations
specifications that prescribe the authorizations, limitations, and
procedures under which each kind of operation must be conducted."

14 C.F.R. § 135.293(a): "No certificate holder may use a pilot,
nor may any person serve as a pilot, unless, since the beginning
of the 12th calendar month before that service, that pilot has
passed a written or oral test, given by the Administrator or an
authorized check pilot, on that pilot's knowledge [on specified
subjects]."

14 C.F.R § 135.293(b): "No certificate holder may use a pilot,
nor may any person serve as a pilot, in any aircraft unless, since


                              - 30 -
the beginning of the 12th calendar month before that service, that
pilot has passed a competency check given by the Administrator or
an authorized check pilot in that class [or type] of aircraft."

14 C.F.R. § 135.299(a): "No certificate holder may use a pilot,
nor may any person serve, as a pilot in command of a flight unless,
since the beginning of the 12th calendar month before that service,
that pilot has passed a flight check in one of the types of aircraft
which that pilot is to fly."

14 C.F.R. § 91.501(b): "Operations that may be conducted under
the rules in this subpart instead of those in parts 121, 129, 135,
and 137 of this chapter when common carriage is not involved,
include — . . .
          (3) Flights for the demonstration of an airplane to
          prospective customers when no charge is made except for
          those specified in paragraph (d) of this section;

          (4) Flights conducted by the operator of an airplane for
          his personal transportation, or the transportation of
          his guests when no charge, assessment, or fee is made
          for the transportation;

          (5) Carriage of officials, employees, guests, and
          property of a company on an airplane operated by that
          company, or the parent or a subsidiary of the company or
          a subsidiary of the parent, when the carriage is within
          the scope of, and incidental to, the business of the
          company (other than transportation by air) and no
          charge, assessment or fee is made for the carriage in
          excess of the cost of owning, operating, and maintaining
          the airplane, except that no charge of any kind may be
          made for the carriage of a guest of a company, when the
          carriage is not within the scope of, and incidental to,
          the business of that company;

          (6) The carriage of company officials, employees, and
          guests of the company on an airplane operated under a
          time sharing, interchange, or joint ownership agreement
          as defined in paragraph (c) of this section; . . .

          (9) The carriage of persons on an airplane operated by
          a person in the furtherance of a business other than
          transportation by air for the purpose of selling them
          land, goods, or property, including franchises or
          distributorships, when the carriage is within the scope



                              - 31 -
of, and incidental to, that business and no charge,
assessment, or fee is made for that carriage."




                  - 32 -
