                      United States Court of Appeals
                                  FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT
                                           ____________
No. 26-1032                                                      September Term, 2025
                                                                            FMCS-2025-0622
                                                                            FMCS-91FR7044
                                                            Filed On: May 5, 2026
Jorge Rivera Lujan, et al.,

                  Petitioners

         v.

Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration,
et al.,

                  Respondents


------------------------------

Consolidated with 26-1046

         BEFORE:           Wilkins*, Katsas, and Rao, Circuit Judges

                                              ORDER

       Upon consideration of the emergency motions for stay pending review, the
oppositions thereto, and the replies; the motions to participate as amicus curiae and the
lodged amicus briefs submitted by Teamsters California and Local Governments and
Local Government Leaders; the notice of intention to participate as amicus curiae,
which the court construes as a motion to participate as amicus curiae, and the amicus
brief submitted by Asylum Seeker Advocacy Project, et al.; the amicus briefs submitted
by Waste Pro USA and the Sikh Coalition, et al., which the court construes as including
motions to participate as amicus curiae; and the unopposed motion to expedite, it is

       ORDERED that the motions to participate as amicus curiae be granted. The
Clerk is directed to file the lodged amicus briefs. It is

       FURTHER ORDERED that the motions for stay be denied. For the reasons
discussed in the attached statement of Circuit Judge Katsas, joined by Circuit Judge
Rao, petitioners have not satisfied the stringent requirements for a stay pending court
review. See Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 434 (2009); D.C. Circuit Handbook of
Practice and Internal Procedures 33 (2025). It is



* Circuit Judge Wilkins would grant the emergency motions for stay pending review.
                 United States Court of Appeals
                             FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT
                                      ____________
No. 26-1032                                                 September Term, 2025

      FURTHER ORDERED that the following briefing schedule will apply in these
consolidated cases:

       Petitioners’ Briefs                                             June 15, 2026

       Respondents’ Brief                                               July 15, 2026

       Petitioners’ Reply Briefs                                        July 29, 2026

       Deferred Appendix                                              August 5, 2026

       Final Briefs                                                   August 5, 2026

        The Clerk is directed to schedule these consolidated cases for oral argument on
the first appropriate date in September 2026. The parties will be informed later of the
date of oral argument and the composition of the merits panel.

       The parties are advised that the court “looks with extreme disfavor on the filing of
duplicative briefs in consolidated cases,” see D.C. Circuit Handbook of Practice and
Internal Procedures 38 (2025), and the parties are encouraged to collaborate to avoid
duplication of arguments in their briefs.

       The court reminds the parties that:

       In cases involving direct review in this court of administrative actions, the
       brief of the appellant or petitioner must set forth the basis for the claim of
       standing. . . . The brief must include arguments and cite evidence
       establishing by a “substantial probability” the claim of standing.

See D.C. Cir. Rule 28(a)(7); Sierra Club v. EPA, 292 F.3d 895, 898 (D.C. Cir. 2002).

       Petitioners should raise all issues and arguments in the opening brief. The court
ordinarily will not consider issues and arguments raised for the first time in the reply
brief.

       To enhance the clarity of their briefs, the parties are urged to limit the use of
abbreviations, including acronyms. While acronyms may be used for entities and
statutes with widely recognized initials, briefs should not contain acronyms that are not
widely known. See D.C. Circuit Handbook of Practice and Internal Procedures 43-44
(2025); Notice Regarding Use of Acronyms (D.C. Cir. Jan. 26, 2010).


                                           Page 2
                 United States Court of Appeals
                            FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT
                                     ____________
No. 26-1032                                                September Term, 2025

        Parties are strongly encouraged to hand deliver the paper copies of their briefs to
the Clerk’s office on the date due. Filing by mail may delay the processing of the brief.
Additionally, counsel are reminded that if filing by mail, they must use a class of mail
that is at least as expeditious as first-class mail. See Fed. R. App. P. 25(a). All briefs
and appendices must contain the date that the case is scheduled for oral argument at
the top of the cover. See D.C. Cir. Rule 28(a)(8).


                                       Per Curiam


                                                         FOR THE COURT:
                                                         Clifton B. Cislak, Clerk

                                                 BY:     /s/
                                                         Selena R. Gancasz
                                                         Deputy Clerk




                                          Page 3
     KATSAS, Circuit Judge, joined by RAO, Circuit Judge:
These cases concern the terms on which aliens domiciled
outside the United States may receive licenses to drive trucks,
buses, and other commercial motor vehicles inside the United
States. The regulation under review responds to (1) a
longstanding concern that state licensing authorities cannot
adequately review pertinent driving records and (2) recent
evidence that the authorities cannot consistently decipher one
of the forms used to establish license eligibility. The regulation
addresses the first concern by restricting eligibility to foreign-
domiciled aliens who have visas that enable consular review of
driving records abroad. It addresses the second concern by
requiring use of a different form that more clearly establishes
eligibility requirements.

     Various petitioners challenge the regulation. They seek
expedition and a stay pending review. We deny a stay because
the petitioners have not shown a strong likelihood of success.
But we grant expedition given the lack of opposition, the
importance of the questions presented, and the significant
government and private interests implicated.

                                I

                                A

    The Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety Act makes it
unlawful to drive a commercial motor vehicle without a valid
commercial driver’s license (CDL). 49 U.S.C. § 31302. The
Act authorizes states to issue these licenses, id. § 31301(3),
subject to “minimum uniform standards” promulgated by the
Secretary of Transportation, id. § 31308. The Secretary has
delegated his duties under the Act to the Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration (FMCSA). See 49 C.F.R. § 1.87(e)(1).

   The Act generally bars states from issuing CDLs to non-
domiciliaries. 49 U.S.C. § 31311(a)(12)(A). However, it
                                2
allows states to issue such CDLs “[u]nder regulations
prescribed by” the FMCSA. Id. § 31311(a)(12)(B). These
cases involve regulations for issuing CDLs to aliens domiciled
outside the United States but lawfully present here. Such aliens
must satisfy all the requirements that apply to domestic
domiciliaries, which include a driving test and a check of prior
driving history. 49 C.F.R. § 383.73(b). Before 2025, such
aliens had to establish their lawful presence by providing either
“an approved I-94 form,” which documents lawful entry into
the United States, or an “unexpired employment authorization
document” (EAD) issued by the United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services. 49 C.F.R. § 383.71(f)(2)(i) (2021).
EADs list immigration codes corresponding to the basis for the
holder’s lawful presence in the United States. In contrast, I-94
forms convey that information in plain English.

                                B

     In September 2025, the FMCSA published an Interim
Final Rule modifying this regulatory scheme for non-domiciled
aliens. Restoring Integrity to the Issuance of Non-Domiciled
Commercial Drivers Licenses (CDL), 90 Fed. Reg. 46,509
(Sept. 29, 2025) (IFR). The IFR limited eligibility to aliens
holding employment visas in the H-2A, H-2B, and E-2
programs. See id. at 46,515.1 In doing so, the agency stressed
that non-domiciled CDL holders were involved in “multiple
fatal crashes in 2025.” Id. at 46,514. The agency further noted
its view that states could not adequately assess aliens’ driving

    1
         The H-2A program allows aliens to serve as temporary
agricultural workers in the United States. 8 U.S.C. §§ 1188(i)(2),
1101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(a). The H-2B program allows aliens to work here
temporarily in non-agricultural jobs. Id. § 1101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b).
The E-2 program governs aliens coming to the United States to make
or direct substantial investments. Id. § 1101(a)(15)(E)(ii).
                               3
records abroad because they lacked access to the relevant
foreign records. See id.

     Various affected parties petitioned for review of the IFR
and sought stays. In November 2025, a divided panel of this
Court stayed the IFR. The majority found three likely flaws in
it. First, the FMCSA likely violated a statutory requirement to
consult with the states. Rivera Lujan v. FMCSA, No. 25-1215,
2025 WL 3182504, at *1 (D.C. Cir. Nov. 13, 2025). Second,
the FMCSA likely lacked good cause to forgo notice-and-
comment procedures. Id. at *2. Third, the IFR was likely
arbitrary because (i) the record did not suggest that drivers
excluded by the IFR were more prone to accidents than other
drivers and (ii) the agency unreasonably characterized the
affected drivers’ reliance interests and expected harms as de
minimis. Id.

                               C

     After reviewing more than 8,000 comments and consulting
with the states, the FMCSA issued a Final Rule in February
2026. Restoring Integrity to the Issuance of Non-Domiciled
Commercial Drivers Licenses (CDL), 91 Fed. Reg. 7044 (Feb.
13, 2026) (Final Rule). Like the IFR, the Final Rule limits non-
domiciled CDLs to aliens lawfully present with H-2A, H-2B,
or E-2 visas. Id. at 7047–51. Moreover, it requires proof of
this status through an I-94 form rather than an EAD. Id. at
7051–53; see 49 C.F.R. §§ 383.71(f)(3)(i)(B), 383.5 (2026).

    The agency offered two main justifications for these
changes. First and foremost, it pointed to safety. States must
assess the prior driving records of CDL applicants, yet they
cannot access the foreign driving records of aliens domiciled
abroad. Final Rule, 91 Fed. Reg. at 7044, 7048–50. This is
troubling because “a driver’s historical performance, whether
measured through crashes, violations, or observable risky
                                4
behaviors, provides a robust basis for predicting future safety
outcomes on the road.” Id. at 7048–49. Second, the agency
flagged broader concerns over state compliance with federal
eligibility requirements. The FMCSA’s annual compliance
review revealed that the use of EADs to establish eligibility had
proven difficult and “resulted in widespread regulatory non-
compliance.” Id. at 7044. In part, this stemmed from state
clerks’ frequent misreading of the immigration codes on EADs.
Id. at 7045, 7051–53. To address these problems, the Final
Rule established a “‘bright-line’ eligibility standard” limited to
visa types indicating adequate vetting by other federal
agencies, id. at 7045, as documented on an immigration form
less prone to misreading than are the EADs, id. at 7051–53.

     The same petitioners now seek review of the Final Rule
and a stay pending review. The stay question turns on whether
(1) the aggrieved party has made a “strong showing that he is
likely to succeed on the merits,” (2) that party will suffer
irreparable harm absent a stay, and (3) a stay is consistent with
the public interest. Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S. 418, 425–26
(2009) (cleaned up); see id. at 435. If the petitioner has not
shown any strong likelihood of success, then a stay is
unwarranted. See, e.g., id. at 435; Clevinger v. Advoc.
Holdings, Inc., 134 F.4th 1230, 1236 n.3 (D.C. Cir. 2025).

                                II

     The claims now at issue differ from the ones that supported
a stay of the IFR. In promulgating the Final Rule, the FMCSA
consulted with the states and proceeded through notice-and-
comment procedures. Further, as explained below, the agency
clarified its safety rationale, disclaimed reliance on anecdotal
crash data, considered the reliance interests of affected drivers,
and abandoned its characterization of those interests as de
minimis.
                                 5
     The petitioners contend that the Final Rule violates the
Safety Act and is arbitrary. We resolve the statutory claim de
novo, affording only respectful consideration to the agency’s
views on that point. Loper Bright Enters. v. Raimondo, 603
U.S. 369, 401–02 (2024). In contrast, judicial review for
arbitrariness under the Administrative Procedure Act “is
deferential, and a court may not substitute its own policy
judgment for that of the agency.” FCC v. Prometheus Radio
Project, 592 U.S. 414, 423 (2021). Rather, the agency need
only articulate a “rational connection between the facts found
and the choice made.” Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Ass’n v. State Farm
Mut. Automobile Ins. Co., 463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983) (cleaned up).
Applying these standards of review, we conclude that the
petitioners have not shown a strong likelihood of success, and
we therefore deny their motions for a stay pending review.

                                 A

     One petitioner contends that the Safety Act does not
authorize the Final Rule. But the statute provides that the
FMCSA “shall prescribe regulations on minimum uniform
standards for the issuance of commercial drivers’ licenses.”
49 U.S.C. § 31308. Moreover, the further statement that “[t]he
standards shall require at a minimum” that CDL applicants pass
certain tests and complete certain training, id. § 31308(1),
supports no implication that the standards cannot address other
safety concerns as well. And the Act makes clear that driving
history is a significant safety concern, in requiring the licensing
state to check “all information about the driving record” of each
applicant in “any other State that has issued a driver’s license”
to him, id. § 31311(a)(6), as well as driving records compiled
in a federal registry, id. § 31311(a)(16). Furthermore, the Act
prohibits states from issuing CDLs to anyone not “domiciled in
the State,” id. § 31311(a)(12)(A), except pursuant to
“regulations      prescribed      by”      the    FMCSA,         id.
                                6
§ 31311(a)(12)(B). The excepting clause by its terms grants
the FMCSA the power to promulgate rules with regard to non-
domiciled applicants. And nothing in the statute prevents those
rules from addressing applicants’ driving records. So the
contrary-to-law challenge here is unlikely to succeed.

                                B

      All petitioners challenge the FMCSA’s safety rationale as
arbitrary. They contend that foreign domiciliaries are no more
prone to accidents than other drivers, despite the agency’s
highlighting accidents involving foreign drivers. But the
current safety rationale does not rest on that premise. Instead,
it rests on two different propositions. First, “drivers who have
a history of driving offenses are more likely to be involved in
future crashes.” Final Rule, 91 Fed. Reg. at 7048. Second,
“States do not have access to foreign nations’ systems” for
tracking the driving records of aliens abroad. Id. at 7049. The
petitioners here do not seriously contest either proposition.
And although the prior stay panel faulted the FMCSA for
resting its entire safety case on possibly unrepresentative
anecdotes, the agency has now clarified that the anecdotes are
merely “illustrative.” Id. at 7065. Rather than branding foreign
drivers as uniquely dangerous, the Final Rule seeks instead to
ensure that their vetting is no less rigorous than that of drivers
domiciled in the United States. Such an overall approach is
unlikely to be condemned as arbitrary.

     More narrowly, the petitioners contend that the Final Rule
is arbitrary because the specific lines it draws are not
adequately tailored to its underlying safety rationale. This
analysis sounds more like a plea for heightened constitutional
scrutiny than like an application of arbitrary-and-capricious
review under the APA. To be sure, a rule may be arbitrary if it
has a sufficiently “significant mismatch” with its underlying
                                7
rationale. See Dep’t of Com. v. New York, 588 U.S. 752, 783
(2019). But in general, agencies have “wide discretion in
making line-drawing decisions … within a zone of
reasonableness.” Nat’l Shooting Sports Found., Inc. v. Jones,
716 F.3d 200, 214 (D.C. Cir. 2013) (cleaned up). The lines
drawn by the Final Rule may not be perfect, but we cannot say
that they are likely unreasonable.

     The petitioners argue that the FMCSA lacked adequate
grounds for extending eligibility to foreign domiciliaries
holding H-2A, H-2B, and E-2 visas. But the agency reasonably
determined that, for those visa categories, “several factors”
combine to “provide reasonable assurance of driver fitness”
despite the states’ inability to review driver history. Final Rule,
91 Fed. Reg. at 7050. These factors include adjudication of
visa eligibility by Department of State consular officers abroad,
Department of Labor checks for H-2A and H-2B workers,
checks by sponsoring employers, and continued federal
oversight through visa renewals. See id. at 7048–51. The
petitioners criticize individual aspects of these screening
mechanisms, but we find some of the criticisms overstated. For
instance, they question whether consular officers do in fact
request and review documentation related to driving history.
Yet as the FMCSA explained, “[t]he Department of State has
confirmed that consular officers adjudicating such visa
applications assess certain factors relevant to both visa
eligibility and [commercial motor vehicle] driver fitness,
including but not limited to driving history.” Id. at 7050. And
in any event, the FMCSA reasonably concluded that “the
totality of Federal vetting for these specific visa categories
provides a reasonable functional equivalent,” even though “no
single element of this process perfectly replicates” the driving
history checks “available for domestic drivers.” Id.
                               8
     The petitioners further argue that the safety rationale does
not apply to beneficiaries of the immigration program known
as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA). It affords
immigration benefits to certain aliens who unlawfully entered
the United States as children and have lived here since then.
See DHS v. Regents of the Univ. of Cal., 591 U.S. 1, 8–9 (2020).
Among the benefits are deferred removal from the United
States and authorization to work here in the meantime. See id.
Given their circumstances, DACA beneficiaries likely hold
EADs but not I-94 forms. So the requirement to verify
eligibility through an I-94 form effectively disqualifies DACA
recipients from receiving CDLs, even though they likely lack
any foreign driving history.

     The FMCSA grappled with this concern and reasonably
explained its position. To begin with, allowing DACA
recipients to use EADs to document eligibility would present
substantial administrability and compliance problems. State
licensing clerks “cannot accurately distinguish whether an
EAD code is a permissible basis for issuance of a non-
domiciled CDL to a DACA recipient.” Final Rule, 91 Fed.
Reg. at 7055. In particular, clerks mistake DACA coding for
other codes that indicate different statuses like “Deferred
Action” or “Alien Granted Deferred Action.” Id. at 7069. This
would “create the same problems with the improper issuance
of non-domiciled … CDLs” that the Final Rule sought to
prevent. Id. at 7055, 7069. Some of these mistakes—like
issuing the wrong category of license to an alien—would
implicate primarily compliance concerns. But others—like
issuing CDLs to non-DACA “Deferred Action” aliens with
potentially significant foreign driving histories—would
implicate the safety concerns at the core of the Final Rule. On
top of all that, the agency reasonably explained its view that
DACA beneficiaries can claim only very limited reliance
interests in the specific context of CDLs: More than 80 percent
                                 9
of such beneficiaries are citizens of Mexico, whose reciprocal
licensing agreement with the United States makes these
individuals legally ineligible for a non-domiciled CDL issued
within the United States. Id. at 7055, 7092; see 49 C.F.R.
§§ 383.71(f)(1)(i), 383.23(a)(2), (b)(1) & n.1. And they began
receiving CDLs only in 2023, when the FMCSA announced
that it would no longer enforce this eligibility limitation against
DACA beneficiaries. See Final Rule, 91 Fed. Reg. at 7055. So
although DACA recipients present a sympathetic set of
circumstances, we cannot conclude that the FMCSA likely
acted arbitrarily in declining to carve them out of an otherwise
reasonable regulation requiring use of the I-94 form.2

     Finally, the petitioners fault the FMCSA for failing to
adequately consider non-domiciled drivers’ reliance interests.
But as explained above, the agency did address at some length
the distinct reliance considerations involving DACA
beneficiaries. And more generally, the FMCSA stated that it
has “not taken the decision to alter eligibility criteria lightly,”
but concluded that public safety outweighed the “private
reliance interests.” Final Rule, 91 Fed. Reg. at 7083. This
explanation likely suffices, for an agency “has considerable
flexibility in carrying out its responsibility” to balance
competing interests in making difficult policy judgments.
Regents, 591 U.S. at 31–32; see Affirmed Energy, LLC v.
FERC, 166 F.4th 1070, 1088 (D.C. Cir. 2026) (“It falls to the


    2
       One distinct administrability concern involves the issuance of
CDLs for terms extending beyond expiration of the relevant visa.
The parties dispute whether pre-existing regulations so limited the
permissible term of a CDL. We need not consider that issue because
the safety and administrability concerns addressed above suffice to
show that the FMCSA permissibly declined to create a special
carveout for DACA beneficiaries.
                                 10
agency to decide whether any reliance interests are outweighed
by other factors.”).3

                                 III

     Although we deny a stay pending review, we nonetheless
grant the petitioners’ alternative request for expedition. As our
analysis above has made clear, the legal questions presented
here are at least fairly contestable, and the cases implicate
important governmental and private interests. Moreover, the
government does not oppose expedition. So we grant it, as set
forth in the accompanying order.

                                                        So ordered.




    3
        One petitioner contends that the Final Rule is pretext for an
anti-immigrant agenda.       Courts approach claims of pretext
skeptically because probing the Executive’s “motivation represents
a substantial intrusion into the workings of another branch of
Government.” See Dep’t of Com., 588 U.S. at 781 (cleaned up).
Here, in light of the agency’s reasonable safety rationale, the claim
of pretext appears unsupported by the record “and, without more, [is]
insufficient to upset the presumption that public officials have
properly discharged their official duties.” Hight v. DHS, 135 F.4th
996, 1008 (D.C. Cir. 2025) (cleaned up).
