                  FOR PUBLICATION

   UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
        FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY,                    No. 23-15124

              Plaintiff-Appellant,       D.C. No. 2:21-cv-
                                           00177-SRB
 v.

MIGUEL A. CARDONA, in his                    OPINION
official capacity as Secretary of the
United States Department of
Education; U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
EDUCATION,

              Defendants-Appellees.

       Appeal from the United States District Court
                for the District of Arizona
        Susan R. Bolton, District Judge, Presiding

         Argued and Submitted January 24, 2024
                  Pasadena, California

                 Filed November 8, 2024

Before: Daniel P. Collins, Danielle J. Forrest, and Jennifer
                  Sung, Circuit Judges.

                 Opinion by Judge Collins
2            GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY V. CARDONA


                          SUMMARY *


     Higher Education Act of 1965 / Administrative
                    Procedure Act

    The panel reversed the district court’s summary
judgment in favor of the Department of Education in an
action brought by Grand Canyon University (“GCU”)
challenging the Department’s denial of GCU’s application
to be recognized as a nonprofit institution under the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (“HEA”).
    In considering GCU’s application, the Department
concluded that even though GCU had satisfied the regulatory
requirement to obtain 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3) recognition
from the Internal Revenue Service as a tax-exempt
organization, the Department would need to independently
review whether GCU qualified as a § 501(c)(3)
organization. The Department held that GCU’s organizing
documents satisfied the relevant requirements of the
organizational test, but GCU did not meet the operational
test’s requirement that both the primary activities of the
organization and its stream of revenue benefit the nonprofit
itself.
    The panel held that the Department applied the wrong
legal standards in evaluating GCU’s application, and that the
Department’s legal error required that its decision be set
aside. The Department invoked the wrong legal standards
by relying on IRS regulations that impose requirements that
go well beyond the HEA’s requirements and instead

*
 This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
           GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY V. CARDONA            3


implement a portion of § 501(c)(3) that has no counterpart
in the definition of the term “nonprofit” set forth in HEA
§ 103(13). The correct HEA standards required the
Department to determine (1) whether GCU was owned and
operated by a nonprofit corporation, and (2) whether GCU
satisfied the no-inurement requirement. Because the
Department failed to apply the correct legal standards, the
panel reversed the judgment of the district court, and
remanded with instructions to set aside the Department’s
denials and to remand to the Department for further
proceedings.



                       COUNSEL

Steven Gombos (argued), David A. Obuchowicz, and Jacob
Shorter, Gombos Leyton PC, Fairfax, Virginia; Kevin E.
O’Malley and Hannah H. Porter, Gallagher & Kennedy PA,
Phoenix, Arizona; for Plaintiff-Appellant.
Casen B. Ross (argued) and Daniel Tenny, Attorneys,
Appellate Staff, Civil Division; Gary M. Restaino, United
States Attorney; Brian M. Boynton, Principal Deputy
Assistant Attorney General; United States Department of
Justice, Washington, D.C.; Toby Merrill, Deputy General
Counsel; Lisa Brown, General Counsel; United States
Department of Education, Washington, D.C.; for
Defendants-Appellees.
4            GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY V. CARDONA


                            OPINION

COLLINS, Circuit Judge:

    Grand Canyon University (“GCU”), a private university
in Arizona, applied to the Department of Education (the
“Department”) to be recognized as a nonprofit institution
under the Higher Education Act of 1965 (“HEA”). The
Department denied GCU’s application and adhered to that
denial on GCU’s request for reconsideration. GCU then
filed this action, alleging that the Department’s decisions
were arbitrary and capricious under the Administrative
Procedure Act (“APA”) and should be set aside. The district
court granted summary judgment to the Department, and
GCU has appealed. We reverse and remand.
                                 I
                                 A
    Through a variety of “loan and grant programs”
administered by the Department under Title IV of the HEA,
“Congress provides billions of dollars” each year “to help
students pay tuition for their postsecondary education.”
Association of Priv. Sector Colls. & Univs. v. Duncan, 681
F.3d 427, 433 (D.C. Cir. 2012). To be eligible to “participate
in Title IV programs,” a postsecondary school “must satisfy
several statutory requirements.” Id. at 433–34. In particular,
the school must meet HEA § 102(a)’s statutory definition of
an “institution of higher education’” for purposes of Title IV.
See 20 U.S.C. § 1002(a). 1 That definition includes both a

1
 The HEA has generally been classified to Chapter 28 of the unenacted
Title 20 of the United States Code. Its current text is available at
<https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/COMPS-765/pdf/COMPS-
765.pdf>.
            GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY V. CARDONA                5


qualifying for-profit “proprietary institution of higher
education,” id. § 1002(a)(1)(A), and a qualifying “public or
other nonprofit institution,” id. § 1001(a)(4). Each school
must also “enter into a program participation agreement”
with the Department. Id. § 1094(a). The requirements for
such an agreement are generally comparable for nonprofit
and for-profit institutions, but there are some differences.
See, e.g., id. § 1094(a)(24) (specifying that for-profit schools
must “derive not less than ten percent of such institution’s
revenues from sources other than” funds provided under
Title IV).
     GCU has been a nonprofit school for most of its history.
However, when GCU experienced significant financial
trouble in the early 2000s, GCU sought to avoid bankruptcy
by selling the school to private investors who would then
operate GCU as a for-profit entity.            Following the
completion of that sale, the school “was owned and operated
by Grand Canyon Education, Inc. (‘GCE’), a Delaware
publicly traded corporation.”         After GCU operated
successfully as a for-profit institution for several years,
GCU’s Board of Trustees decided that, for a variety of
reasons, the school would seek to return to a nonprofit status.
These reasons included the perceived academic and athletic
competitive disadvantages of a for-profit school, as well as
the desire to ensure that GCU would be able to keep its
tuition rates low.
    Under the HEA and the Department’s implementing
regulations, GCU’s reorganization as a nonprofit institution
would require it to enter into a new program participation
agreement and to establish that, after the transaction
accomplishing the change, GCU met the HEA’s
requirements to qualify as a nonprofit institution. 20 U.S.C.
§ 1099c(i)(1); 34 C.F.R. §§ 600.20(b)(2)(iii), 600.31(a)(3),
6              GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY V. CARDONA


668.14(g)(1). 2 Section 103(13) of the HEA contains the
following definition of a “nonprofit” institution:

            The term “nonprofit” as applied to a
         school, agency, organization, or institution
         means a school, agency, organization, or
         institution owned and operated by one or
         more nonprofit corporations or associations,
         no part of the net earnings of which inures, or
         may lawfully inure, to the benefit of any
         private shareholder or individual.

20 U.S.C. § 1003(13). The Department’s regulations track
this statutory definition, but also add the further
requirements that the school must be “authorized to operate
as a nonprofit organization” under applicable state law and
must qualify as a tax-exempt organization under § 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”). See 34 C.F.R.
§ 600.2.
    In an effort to comply with these requirements, GCU’s
Board of Trustees established an Arizona nonprofit entity
known as “Gazelle University” (“Gazelle”) and arranged for
Gazelle to buy GCU back from GCE. The Gazelle-GCE
transaction, which closed on July 1, 2018, was accomplished
through three main documents: (1) an Asset Purchase
Agreement, (2) a Credit Agreement, and (3) a Master
Services Agreement (“MSA”). Under the Asset Purchase
Agreement, GCE agreed to sell GCU to Gazelle for
approximately $853 million. Under the Credit Agreement,
GCE loaned Gazelle the purchase price, and the loan was

2
  All citations to the Department’s regulations are to the version in effect
in January 2021, when the Department denied GCU’s application on
reconsideration.
            GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY V. CARDONA                7


secured by a first-priority lien on essentially all of Gazelle’s
property and equitable interests. Under the MSA, Gazelle
agreed to “outsource certain services to GCE,” and “in
exchange,” GCE would receive, as service fees, “60% of the
university’s adjusted gross revenues.” The MSA was to last
for an initial term of 15 years, and unless terminated, the
MSA would “automatically renew for successive five (5)
year terms.” Gazelle could terminate the agreement after
seven years of the initial term by providing GCE with written
notice 18 months in advance, and it could likewise prevent a
renewal by providing notice at least 18 months before the
end of the then-current term. If Gazelle invoked its right not
to renew the MSA, it had to pay GCE, by the end of the then-
current term, a non-renewal fee that was equal to 50% of the
service fees payable to GCE over approximately the last 12
months of that current term.
                               B
    After Gazelle was established as a nonprofit corporation
but before the transaction with GCE was closed, Gazelle
detailed the proposed transaction to the IRS in its application
for tax-exempt status under § 501(c)(3). The IRS formally
recognized Gazelle as a § 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization
on November 9, 2015. In the spring of 2018, state regulators
in Arizona approved GCU’s bid to operate as a nonprofit
university, effective upon the close of the Gazelle-GCE
transaction. The relevant accrediting authorities also
approved Gazelle’s proposed operation of GCU as a
nonprofit university in March 2018.
    Meanwhile, on January 18, 2018, GCU submitted a
request to the Department for a “pre-acquisition review” of
the proposed transaction and for a determination that the
Department would agree to reclassify GCU as a nonprofit
8             GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY V. CARDONA


institution for purposes of Title IV. After the Department
failed to provide any pre-acquisition guidance, Gazelle and
GCE nonetheless proceeded to close the transaction on July
1, 2018. After the transaction closed, and Gazelle acquired
the rights to GCU’s trademarked name, Gazelle changed its
name to “Grand Canyon University.” While GCU’s request
for reclassification remained pending, the Department
provisionally allowed GCU to continue to participate in Title
IV programs under the same conditions as before.
    By letter dated November 6, 2019, the Department
denied GCU’s application to be recognized as a nonprofit
under Title IV. The Department conceded in its letter that
GCU met the regulatory requirements that it be an
authorized nonprofit organization under Arizona law and
that it have received recognition from the IRS as a tax-
exempt § 501(c)(3) organization. See 34 C.F.R. § 600.2.
But the Department concluded that GCU failed to meet the
remaining requirement that it be “owned and operated by
one or more nonprofit corporations or associations, no part
of the net earnings of which benefits any private shareholder
or individual.” Id.; see also 20 U.S.C. § 1003(13).
     In examining this issue, the Department concluded that
it “requires a review of relevant authority under the Internal
Revenue Code.”         That was true, according to the
Department, because its regulatory “definition of a nonprofit
institution mirrors the statutory language for tax exempt
organizations found in 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3).” 3 The
Department therefore concluded that, even though GCU had
satisfied the regulatory requirement to obtain § 501(c)(3)
recognition from “the U.S. Internal Revenue Service,” 34

3
  As we discuss below, there are in fact significant differences in the
relevant statutory language. See infra Section III(A).
            GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY V. CARDONA              9


C.F.R. § 600.2, the Department would need to independently
review whether GCU qualified as a § 501(c)(3) organization
under the applicable IRS regulations. Citing 26 C.F.R.
§ 1.501(c)(3)-1(a)(1), the Department stated that those
regulations required GCU “to meet both an organizational
test and an operational test.” The Department agreed that
GCU’s organizing documents satisfied the relevant
requirements of the “organizational test,” and it therefore
turned to consider whether GCU satisfied the “operational
test.”
    Under § 1.501(c)(3)-1(c)(1)’s operational test, “[a]n
organization will be regarded as operated exclusively for one
or more exempt purposes only if it engages primarily in
activities which accomplish one or more of such exempt
purposes specified in section 501(c)(3).” 26 C.F.R.
§ 1.501(c)(3)-1(c)(1). According to the Department’s first
denial letter, the “focus of the operational test is on the
prohibition against private benefit and private inurement,”
with the “private benefit” inquiry focusing on “the primary
activities of the organization” and the “private inurement”
inquiry focusing on the “distribution of earnings.” The
Department stated that, “[a]lthough there is significant
overlap in the analysis of prohibited substantial private
benefit under the primary activities test and private
inurement under the distribution of earnings test, the
prohibition on private benefit encompasses a greater range
of activities” (footnote omitted).           “Unlike private
inurement,” the Department explained, “private benefit does
not necessarily involve the flow of funds from an exempt
organization to a related private party[;] it can also include
other benefits from the activities of the exempt organization
to an unrelated party” (emphasis omitted).
10          GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY V. CARDONA


    Turning to GCU’s case, the Department concluded that
the “primary purpose” of the GCE-Gazelle transaction “was
to drive shareholder value for GCE.” The Department based
this conclusion on the purportedly disproportionate 60%
share of GCU’s revenues to which GCE was entitled under
the transaction, which included revenue from operations to
which GCE was not obligated to “provide[]” any “services”
under the MSA. The Department also found that, when
taking into account payments on the loan under the Credit
Agreement, GCE would be “receiving approximately 95%”
of the university’s revenues. “[E]qually concerning” to the
Department was its view that GCU was a “captive client”
under the transaction, given the initial seven-year term of the
MSA and the substantial financial payment that the
university would have to make in order to terminate the
agreement. The Department concluded that “GCU d[id] not
meet the operational test’s requirement that both the primary
activities of the organization and its stream of revenue
benefit the nonprofit itself.” According to the Department,
“[t]his violates the most basic tenet of nonprofit status—that
the nonprofit be primarily operated for a tax-exempt purpose
and not substantially for the benefit of any other person or
entity.”
     The Department also stated, as “additional support” for
its conclusion that GCU was not entitled to nonprofit status,
that Gazelle was “not the entity actually operating” the
university under the Department’s regulations.           See
34 C.F.R. § 600.2 (stating that a HEA nonprofit must be
“operated by one or more nonprofit corporations or
associations”); 20 U.S.C. § 1003(13) (same).             The
Department reasoned that the board “responsible for
managing and overseeing the University” consisted
predominantly of GCE employees. The Department also
            GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY V. CARDONA              11


found that Gazelle was not operating the university because,
under the MSA, GCE was responsible for “marketing,
enrollment services and budget consultations,” “curriculum
services, accounting services,” “procurement services, audit
services, human resources,” “faculty operations,” and other
areas.
    As further “additional support” for its conclusion, the
Department expressed concern that Brian Mueller, the CEO
of GCE, also served as the President of GCU. While it
acknowledged that the MSA “limit[s] Mr. Mueller’s direct
involvement in the day[-]to[-]day oversight of [GCU’s]
relationship with GCE,” the Department was “not satisfied
that these structures are sufficient to ensure that Mr.
Mueller’s undivided loyalty is to the Institution.”
    GCU requested reconsideration of the denial of its
application and proposed an Amended and Restated Master
Services Agreement (“ARMSA”) in an attempt to assuage
some of the Department’s specific concerns about the
transaction. Thus, for example, the ARMSA eliminated
GCE’s control over curriculum services and faculty
operations. It also eliminated GCE’s entitlement to share in
GCU’s revenue from operations to which GCE did not
provide any services. Instead GCE would be paid 66.8% of
the tuition paid on behalf of students and fees received from
students.
    By letter dated January 12, 2021, the Department
reaffirmed its denial of nonprofit status to GCU. The
Department reasoned that, “[a]lthough the revenue sharing
percentages ha[d] changed somewhat under the ARMSA,”
the transaction still retained “the basic structure whereby a
substantial portion of GCU’s revenues benefits GCE.”
“Based on the tax authority cited” in its earlier decision, the
12           GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY V. CARDONA


Department concluded that GCU still had not met “the
requirement that both the primary activities of the
organization and its stream of revenue benefit the nonprofit
itself.”
    The Department acknowledged GCU’s argument that, in
light of the elimination of GCE’s control over curriculum
and faculty, the Department should revisit its earlier
conclusion that Gazelle was not actually “operating” GCU.
But the Department expressly declined to decide that issue:
“Given the Department’s conclusion in this reconsideration
determination that the continued revenue stream under the
ARMSA (if executed) would prevent the Department from
approving GCU’s requested conversion to nonprofit status,
there is no need for the Department to re-examine this issue.”
The Department also stated that it continued to believe that
Mueller’s “dual roles” as GCE’s CEO and GCU’s President
were a “concerning factor.”
                               C
    GCU then filed suit against the Department and its
Secretary, Miguel Cardona, under the APA, which provides
that a “reviewing court” shall “hold unlawful and set aside
agency action[] . . . found to be . . . arbitrary, capricious, an
abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with
law.” 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A). The district court granted
summary judgment to the Defendants (whom we will refer
to collectively as “the Department”), holding that the
Department’s decisions were not arbitrary and capricious or
             GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY V. CARDONA                  13


contrary to law. 4 GCU timely appealed, and we have
jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1291.
                                II
   We review the district court’s grant of summary
judgment to the Department de novo. Donell v. Kowell, 533
F.3d 762, 769 (9th Cir. 2008). “De novo review of a district
court judgment concerning a decision of an administrative
agency means th[is] court views the case from the same
position as the district court.” Corrigan v. Haaland, 12 F.4th
901, 906 (9th Cir. 2021) (citation omitted).
    We review de novo whether the Department correctly
construed the HEA. Loper Bright Enterprises v. Raimondo,
144 S. Ct. 2244, 2261, 2273 (2024). If the Department
construed the law correctly, we then review its application
of the law to the facts of the case under the APA’s deferential
standards. Under the “arbitrary and capricious” standard,
“[o]ur only task is to determine whether the [Department]
has considered the relevant factors and articulated a rational
connection between the facts found and the choice made.”
Baltimore Gas & Elec. Co. v. Natural Res. Def. Council,
Inc., 462 U.S. 87, 105 (1983). We review the factual
findings underlying the agency’s decision for substantial
evidence. See Center for Cmty. Action & Env’t Just. v. FAA,
18 F.4th 592, 598 (9th Cir. 2021). That means that we must
uphold such findings if “a reasonable mind might accept
[this] particular evidentiary record as adequate to support
[the agency’s] conclusion.” Dickinson v. Zurko, 527 U.S.
150, 162 (1999) (simplified).

4
   The district court also rejected GCU’s separate claim that the
Department violated the First Amendment when it prohibited GCU
“from holding itself out to the public as a nonprofit.” GCU does not
challenge that conclusion on appeal.
14            GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY V. CARDONA


                                  III
    We conclude that the Department applied the wrong
legal standards in evaluating GCU’s application.
                                  A
    As noted earlier, § 103 of the HEA defines “[t]he term
‘nonprofit[,]’ as applied to a school, agency, organization, or
institution,” to “mean[] a school, agency, organization, or
institution owned and operated by one or more nonprofit
corporations or associations, no part of the net earnings of
which inures, or may lawfully inure, to the benefit of any
private shareholder or individual.” 20 U.S.C. § 1003(13).
We also noted above that the Department’s corresponding
regulatory definition of “[n]onprofit institution”
incorporates, in slightly paraphrased form, that statutory
definition, and it adds two further requirements: (1) the
institution must be “authorized to operate as a nonprofit
organization” in the relevant States; and (2) the institution
must be “determined by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service”
to be a § 501(c)(3) organization. 34 C.F.R. § 600.2. The
Department specifically determined that those two
additional requirements were met here, 5 and so the only
remaining issue is whether the HEA’s statutory definition of
a “nonprofit” institution was satisfied.
    In addressing that “remaining” issue of whether the
HEA’s statutory definition was met, the Department started
from the assumption that this definition “mirrors the
statutory language for tax exempt organizations found in 26


5
 Accordingly, we have no occasion to address whether the Department’s
addition of these two further requirements is inconsistent with the HEA.
We express no view on that question.
             GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY V. CARDONA               15


U.S.C. § 501(c)(3).” That assumption was incorrect, as a
comparison of the relevant statutory texts confirms.
    As relevant here, the IRC describes the “educational”
institutions that are eligible for § 501(c)(3) status as follows:

             Corporations . . . [1] organized and
        operated exclusively for religious, charitable,
        scientific, testing for public safety, literary, or
        educational purposes, . . . [2] no part of the
        net earnings of which inures to the benefit of
        any private shareholder or individual, [3] no
        substantial part of the activities of which is
        carrying on propaganda, or otherwise
        attempting, to influence legislation (except as
        otherwise provided in subsection (h)), and
        [4] which does not participate in, or intervene
        in (including the publishing or distributing of
        statements), any political campaign on behalf
        of (or in opposition to) any candidate for
        public office.

26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3) (bracketed numbers added) (emphasis
added). Once again, the HEA defines a “nonprofit”
educational institution to mean the following:

        a school, agency, organization, or institution
        [1] owned and operated by one or more
        nonprofit corporations or associations, [2] no
        part of the net earnings of which inures, or
        may lawfully inure, to the benefit of any
        private shareholder or individual.

20 U.S.C. § 1003(13) (bracketed numbers added).
16             GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY V. CARDONA


    The clauses we have marked as “[2]” in both statutes are
very similar and impose, under both statutes, a requirement
that “no part of the net earnings” of the organization may
“inure[] to the benefit of any private shareholder or
individual.” The third and fourth clauses of the § 501(c)(3)
definition, however, have no counterpart in HEA
§ 103(13)’s definition. As to the first clauses, the wording
is very different. Section 501(c)(3) requires that the
institution be “organized and operated exclusively” for
“educational” and other specified “purposes,” 26 U.S.C.
§ 501(c)(3), whereas HEA § 103(13) requires only that the
institution be “owned and operated by one or more nonprofit
corporations or associations,” 20 U.S.C. § 1003(13). We
note, however, that satisfying this latter definition of
“nonprofit” does not suffice to render the institution eligible
to participate in Title IV, because § 101(a) of the HEA
imposes several additional requirements to ensure that the
institution in fact operates as an “institution of higher
education.” Id. § 1001(a). 6

6
 Specifically, for a nonprofit institution to participate in Title IV, it must
show that it:
         (1) admits as regular students only persons having a
         certificate of graduation from a school providing
         secondary education, or the recognized equivalent of
         such a certificate, or persons who meet the
         requirements of section 1091(d) of this title;
         (2) is legally authorized within such State to provide a
         program of education beyond secondary education;
         (3) provides an educational program for which the
         institution awards a bachelor’s degree or provides not
         less than a 2-year program that is acceptable for full
         credit toward such a degree, or awards a degree that is
              GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY V. CARDONA                      17


    The HEA thus does not replicate § 501(c)(3)’s
requirement that the institution be “organized and operated
exclusively” for “educational purposes”; instead, it ensures
the nonprofit educational status of the institution by stating
that the institution must meet the educational operation
requirements in § 101(a) and that it must be “owned and
operated by one or more nonprofit corporations or
associations,” 20 U.S.C. § 1003(13). Particularly in light of
the near-verbatim copying of clause [2] of IRC § 501(c)(3)
into clause [2] of HEA § 103(13), the obvious differences in
the remainder of the respective definitions must be deemed
to be deliberate and to signify that, in those remaining
respects, the statutes do not apply identical standards. See
United States v. Olmos-Esparza, 484 F.3d 1111, 1114 (9th
Cir. 2007) (“[W]hen some statutory provisions expressly
mention a requirement, the omission of that requirement
from other statutory provisions implies that the drafter
         acceptable for admission to a graduate or professional
         degree program, subject to review and approval by the
         Secretary;
         (4) is a public or other nonprofit institution; and
         (5) is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting
         agency or association, or if not so accredited, is an
         institution that has been granted preaccreditation
         status by such an agency or association that has been
         recognized by the Secretary for the granting of
         preaccreditation status, and the Secretary has
         determined that there is satisfactory assurance that the
         institution will meet the accreditation standards of
         such an agency or association within a reasonable
         time.
20 U.S.C. § 1001(a). There is no dispute that GCU satisfies
requirements (1), (2), (3), and (5) of this definition. The only question
is whether it meets requirement (4), which turns on the definition of
“nonprofit” in HEA § 103(13).
18          GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY V. CARDONA


intended the inclusion of the requirement in some instances
but not others.”); see also Prewett v. Weems, 749 F.3d 454,
461 (6th Cir. 2014) (“Omitting a phrase from one statute that
Congress has used in another statute with a similar purpose
‘virtually commands the . . . inference’ that the two have
different meanings.” (quoting United States v. Ressam, 553
U.S. 272, 277 (2008))).
    The resulting differences in the statutory requirements
are significant here, because the portions of the IRS
regulations on which the Department relied in determining
that GCU was not a “nonprofit” construe the language of
§ 501(c)(3) that is missing from HEA § 103(13). The
Department applied the “organizational test” and the
“operational test” of 26 C.F.R. § 1.501(c)(3)-1, and that
regulation makes clear that those two tests implement what
the regulation describes as § 501(c)(3)’s requirement that the
“organization must be both organized and operated
exclusively for one or more of the purposes specified in such
section.” 26 C.F.R. § 1.501(c)(3)-1(a)(1) (emphasis added).
Those tests thus implement the requirement of what we
identified as clause [1] of § 501(c)(3)—which is language
that is omitted from HEA § 103(13).
    The IRS regulation discussing the organizational and
operational tests mentions, as an aspect of the operational
test, that an organization does not qualify for § 501(c)(3)
status “if its net earnings inure in whole or in part to the
benefit of private shareholders or individuals.” 26 C.F.R.
§ 1.501(c)(3)-1(c)(2). That corresponds to the statutory
requirement in what we have identified as clause [2] of
§ 501(c)(3) and that is replicated in HEA § 103(13). See 26
U.S.C. § 501(c)(3); see also 20 U.S.C. § 1003(13). In that
sense, the IRS regulations fold the no-inurement
requirement of clause [2] of § 501(c)(3) into the requirement
            GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY V. CARDONA              19


of clause [1] of § 501(c)(3) that the organization must be
“organized and operated exclusively” for “educational
purposes.” 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3). But as the Department
itself recognized in its ruling in this matter, the converse is
not true—i.e., the no-inurement test does not subsume the
organized-and-operated-exclusively test. The Department’s
letter quoted the following statement from the Tax Court:

           [W]hile the private inurement prohibition
       may arguably be subsumed within the private
       benefit analysis of the operational test, the
       reverse is not true. Accordingly, when the
       Court concludes that no prohibited inurement
       of earnings exists, it cannot stop there but
       must inquire further and determine whether a
       prohibited private benefit is conferred.

American Campaign Acad. v. Comm’r, 92 T.C. 1053, 1068–
69 (1989); see also id. at 1068 (“The absence of private
inurement of earnings to the benefit of a private shareholder
or individual does not, however, establish that an
organization is operated exclusively for exempt purposes.”).
    The Department thus invoked the wrong legal standards
by relying on IRS regulations that impose requirements that
go well beyond the HEA’s requirements and that instead
implement a portion of § 501(c)(3) that has no counterpart
in HEA § 103(13).
                              B
    The Department’s legal error requires that its decisions
be set aside. As we have explained, the correct HEA
standards required the Department to determine (1) whether
GCU was “owned and operated” by a nonprofit corporation;
20          GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY V. CARDONA


and (2) whether GCU satisfied the no-inurement
requirement. The Department failed to apply these standards
in denying GCU’s requests.
    In its first decision denying GCU’s request, the
Department conceded that GCU was “owned” by a
“nonprofit corporation,” as required by HEA § 103(13).
However, in then turning to the question of “whether GCU
is operated by a nonprofit,” the Department applied the
IRS’s operational test, which implements § 501(c)(3)’s
requirement that the entity be “operated exclusively” for
“educational purposes” or other listed purposes. 26 U.S.C.
§ 501(c)(3) (emphasis added). But, as we have explained,
the HEA does not require that the institution be “operated
exclusively” for “educational purposes.” It ensures the
educational nature of the institution through a series of
distinct operational requirements (none of which are at issue
here), see 20 U.S.C. § 1001(a), and beyond that it only
requires that the institution be “operated by one or more
nonprofit corporations or associations,” id. § 1003(13).
    Although the Department’s first letter concluded that
Gazelle (the relevant nonprofit corporation) “is not the entity
actually operating” GCU, it is not clear to what extent that
determination was completely independent of the
Department’s erroneous application of the IRS’s
“operational test.” See National Fuel Gas Supply Corp. v.
FERC, 468 F.3d 831, 839 (D.C. Cir. 2006) (stating that,
where an agency’s multiple rationales are not clearly
alternative and independent and “at least one of the
rationales is deficient, [the court] will ordinarily vacate the
order unless” the court is “certain that [the agency] would
have adopted it even absent the flawed rationale”).
Moreover, in its subsequent letter denying reconsideration,
the Department clearly abandoned any reliance on this
              GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY V. CARDONA                       21


earlier determination, because it expressly declined to
consider whether, in light of the changes made by the
ARMSA, GCU now did meet the requirement that it be
operated by a nonprofit, i.e., Gazelle. 7
    The Department also failed to apply HEA § 103(13)’s
private inurement requirement. Instead, the Department
applied the IRS’s “operational test,” under which it
examined, not whether “net earnings” inured to private
benefit, but whether “the primary activities of the
organization and its stream of revenue” primarily benefit
private parties.
    Because the Department failed to apply the correct legal
standards, its decisions must be set aside. 8
                                   IV
   For the reasons stated above, the judgment of the district
court is reversed, and the matter is remanded to the district
court with instructions to set aside the Department’s denials
and to remand to the Department for further proceedings
consistent with this opinion.
    REVERSED AND REMANDED.



7
  The Department’s decisions also fail to make clear what significance
Mueller’s “dual roles” as the CEO of GCE and the President of GCU
would have under the proper legal standards.
8
  In light of our conclusion that this matter must be remanded to the
Department for reconsideration, any questions as to the adequacy of the
administrative record are moot. GCU’s arguments that supplementation
of the record remains warranted even under this court’s decision in Blue
Mountains Biodiversity Project v. Jeffries, 99 F.4th 438, 444–45 (9th Cir.
2024), may be re-raised in the event of any future judicial review
proceedings.
