                     United States Court of Appeals
                               FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT




No. 20-1050                                                          September Term, 2024
                                                                     FILED ON: FEBRUARY 28, 2025

STEIN, INC.,
                         PETITIONER

v.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD,
                  RESPONDENT



Consolidated with 20-1051, 20-1053, 20-1078, 20-1083, 20-1091, 20-1097, 20-1098


                  On Petitions for Review and Cross-Applications for Enforcement
                          of Orders of the National Labor Relations Board


         Before: PILLARD and KATSAS, Circuit Judges. 1

                                               JUDGMENT

       The Court has considered these petitions for review and cross-applications for enforcement
on the record from the National Labor Relations Board and on the parties’ briefs and oral argument.
The Court has accorded the issues full consideration and has determined they do not warrant a
published opinion. See Fed. R. App. P. 36; D.C. Cir. R. 36(d). It is

     ORDERED that the petitions for review filed by Stein and the Engineers are GRANTED, the
petitions for review filed by the Teamsters and the Laborers are DENIED, and, except as to the
evidentiary issue noted herein, the cross-applications for enforcement filed by the NLRB are
DENIED.

                                               *    *    *    *

    Two unions charged that an employer and a third union committed various unfair labor
practices at an Ohio steel plant. The National Labor Relations Board found there were grounds

     1
       Senior Judge Silberman was a member of the panel before his death on October 2, 2022. Judges Pillard and
Katsas have acted as a quorum in this judgment. See 28 U.S.C. § 46(d).
for most of the charged unfair labor practices, but not all. Each of the four parties has sought
review of the NLRB’s orders, and the Board has filed cross-applications for enforcement. The
alleged unfair labor practices all depend on the Board’s determination that the plant’s three historic
bargaining units remained appropriate when the employer began its operations at the plant. We
hold that the Board did not adequately explain that determination and so remand to the Board.

                                                            I

     This case involves slag-processing and scrap-reclamation work at a Middletown, Ohio steel
plant. Slag, which is used to build roads, is extracted from molten steel. In turn, scrap metals are
extracted from the slag and then recycled.

    The owner of the plant contracts out its slag and scrap work. In the past, companies
performing this work recognized and bargained with three different unions—locals or affiliates of
the International Union of Operating Engineers (Engineers); the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters (Teamsters); and the Laborers’ International Union of North America (Laborers). The
Engineers represented mechanics and operators of heavy equipment. The Teamsters represented
drivers. The Laborers represented various less-skilled employees.

     In 2017, Stein won a bid to take over the slag and scrap work at the Middletown plant from
TMS International, Inc. Stein intended to recognize and bargain only with the Engineers. Stein
and the Engineers signed a collective-bargaining agreement purporting to cover all employees
performing the slag and scrap work. The agreement required all employees to join the Engineers.
In 2018, Stein took over the slag and scrap operations and began applying to all employees its
collective-bargaining agreement with the Engineers. Stein began training employees to perform
tasks outside their historic jurisdictions.

     The Teamsters and Laborers charged Stein and the Engineers with various unfair labor
practices. An administrative law judge held that Stein had succeeded to TMS’s collective-
bargaining obligations, in part because the preexisting bargaining-unit structure remained
appropriate when Stein took over the slag and scrap work. Stein, Inc., 369 N.L.R.B. No. 10, at 20-
21 (2020). 2 The ALJ therefore held that Stein had committed unfair labor practices by refusing to
bargain with the Teamsters and Laborers, by recognizing the Engineers as the exclusive bargaining
representative of employees previously represented by the Teamsters and Laborers, and by
applying its collective-bargaining agreement to those employees. See id. at 26-27. Likewise, the
ALJ held that the Engineers had committed unfair labor practices by accepting recognition and
assistance from Stein and by entering the new collective-bargaining agreement with it. See id. at
27. The Board affirmed the ALJ on those points. See id. at 1-2 & 2 n.6.

     The Board reversed the ALJ’s findings of unfair labor practices predicated on Stein, as a
successor employer, unilaterally establishing initial terms and conditions of employment. See id.
at 3-4. Although the Board affirmed the ALJ’s determination that Stein succeeded to TMS’s
bargaining obligations, it disagreed with the ALJ’s conclusion that Stein thereby forfeited its right
to set initial terms and conditions of employment as contrary to NLRB v. Burns International

     2
        The ALJ and the Board issued separate decisions on the Teamsters’ and Laborers’ respective charges. The
decisions are identical in all respects relevant here. For concision, we cite to the decisions in the Laborers’ case only.

                                                            2
Security Services., Inc., 406 U.S. 272, 294 (1972). Stein, Inc., 369 N.L.R.B. No. 10, at 3. The
Board did, however, uphold one of the ALJ’s unfair labor practice determinations, albeit on
narrower grounds: It concluded that Stein’s summary discharge of laborer Ken Karoly was invalid
because it depended on Stein’s unilateral change to the terms and conditions of the Laborers’
employment. Id. at 4 (Board); see id. at 25-26 (ALJ).

    Stein and the Engineers petitioned for review to challenge the unfair-labor-practice
determinations. The Teamsters and the Laborers petitioned to re-establish the unfair labor
practices found by the ALJ and set aside by the NLRB. The Board filed cross-applications for
enforcement. We have jurisdiction under 29 U.S.C. §§ 160(e)-(f).

                                                 II

                                                 A

     Section 7 of the National Labor Relations Act guarantees employees the right “to bargain
collectively through representatives of their own choosing.” 29 U.S.C. § 157. Section 8(a)
prohibits employers from engaging in unfair labor practices, which include interfering with
collective bargaining, dominating a union, and refusing to bargain with a union supported by a
majority of employees in the relevant bargaining unit. Id. § 158(a). Section 8(b) prohibits unions
from engaging in unfair labor practices, which include coercing employees in collective
bargaining. Id. § 158(b).

     The allegations against Stein and the Engineers hinge on whether Stein succeeded to
collective-bargaining obligations TMS owed to the Teamsters and Laborers. Under NLRB
precedent, an employer succeeds to the collective-bargaining obligations of a predecessor if (1)
there is a substantial continuity in the relevant operations, (2) a majority of the successor’s
employees worked for the predecessor, and (3) the historical bargaining units remain appropriate.
Stein, 369 N.L.R.B. No. 10, at 2 n.6; see also Burns, 406 U.S. at 277-81. The parties do not dispute
that the first two conditions are satisfied, but they disagree about whether the historic bargaining
units remain appropriate.

                                                 B

    The Board typically applies a “community of interest” test to determine appropriate
bargaining units. See Deferiet Paper Co. v. NLRB, 235 F.3d 581, 583 (D.C. Cir. 2000); Trident
Seafoods, Inc. v. NLRB, 101 F.3d 111, 118 & n.11 (D.C. Cir. 1996). This test considers the degree
to which employees in a putative unit share a “community of interests distinct from the interests
of other employees of the company.” Trident Seafoods, 101 F.3d at 118 n.11 (cleaned up).
Relevant factors include “whether, in relation to other employees, they have different methods of
compensation, hours of work, benefits, supervision, training and skills; if their contact with other
employees is infrequent; if their work functions are not integrated with those of other employees;
and if they have historically been part of a distinct bargaining unit.” Id. (cleaned up). The Board
assesses these factors “from the perspective of the employees involved.” S. Power Co. v. NLRB,
664 F.3d 946, 950 (D.C. Cir. 2012) (cleaned up).

    In the successorship context, the unit determination “is not the same inquiry the Board would
conduct when certifying a unit for the first time.” Deferiet Paper Co., 235 F.3d at 583; see Trident
                                                 3
Seafoods, 101 F.3d at 118 & n.11 (in successorship context, the Board need not “apply the
traditional community-of-interest test”). By itself, a “mere change of employers or of ownership”
should not upset bargaining arrangements that have worked well in the past. See Burns, 406 U.S.
at 279. The Board thus favors maintaining historically recognized bargaining units, Trident
Seafoods, 101 F.3d at 114, and it “has long given substantial weight to prior bargaining history,”
id. at 118 (cleaned up). Accordingly, “a group of employees with a significant history of
representation by a particular union presumptively constitutes an appropriate bargaining unit.”
Int’l Longshore & Warehouse Union v. NLRB, 890 F.3d 1100, 1111 (D.C. Cir. 2018) (cleaned up).
“To rebut that presumption” requires a party challenging the appropriateness of the historical unit
to show “compelling circumstances sufficient to overcome the significance of bargaining history.”
Everport Terminal Servs., Inc. v. NLRB., 47 F.4th 782, 790 (D.C. Cir. 2022) (cleaned up).

    Our review of unit determinations is “deferential but not toothless.” Int’l Longshore &
Warehouse Union v. NLRB, 971 F.3d 356, 360 (D.C. Cir. 2020). The Board “need only select an
appropriate unit, not the most appropriate unit.” S. Power Co., 664 F.3d at 951 (cleaned up).
Moreover, we must accept Board factfinding that is supported by substantial evidence. 29 U.S.C.
§ 160(e). In determining whether any Board decision was arbitrary, we consider only whether it
was “reasonable and reasonably explained.” Circus Circus Casinos, Inc. v. NLRB, 961 F.3d 469,
475 (D.C. Cir. 2020) (cleaned up).

                                                 III

     Here, the Board did not reasonably explain its conclusion that the historic bargaining units
remained appropriate. The ALJ concluded, and the Board agreed, that Stein’s cross-jurisdictional
employee assignments were “not so regular and widespread as to alter the appropriateness of the
three historical units.” Stein, 369 N.L.R.B. No. 10, at 20-21 (ALJ); see id. at 1-2 (Board). In other
words, the NLRB concluded that the situation on the ground was not much different after Stein
took over the contract than it had been earlier.

     The Board’s analysis, comparing circumstances before and after Stein took over the contract,
was insufficient to support its conclusion that the historic bargaining units remained appropriate.
In Deferiet Paper, we held that the Board cannot maintain historic bargaining structures based on
a “purely comparative inquiry.” 235 F.3d at 583. To the contrary, “[e]ven if the successor
implements no significant changes,” a historic unit may be inappropriate if it “fails to conform
reasonably well to other standards of appropriateness.” Id. at 584 (cleaned up). So, if the TMS
units were “only marginally appropriate prior to” Stein’s takeover, then even “relatively small
changes” in training and cross-assignments could make the units inappropriate. See id. And if the
TMS units had become inappropriate before Stein took over, then they would remain inappropriate
even if Stein made no changes.

     In analyzing the prior TMS units, the Board said only that the three-union structure
“conformed reasonably well to other standards of appropriateness.” Stein, 369 N.L.R.B. No. 10,
at 2 n.6 (quoting Deferiet Paper, 235 F.3d at 584). But an assertion so “conclusory” does not
amount to reasoned decision making. See Am. Clean Power Ass’n v. FERC, 54 F.4th 722, 727
(D.C. Cir. 2022). The Board did not meaningfully respond to Stein’s other arguments that separate
units had been inappropriate before Stein took over—such as its claims that members of the three
units had job functions that were integrated across their distinct units, regular coordination with

                                                 4
one another, and highly similar compensation schemes, work schedules, benefits, and shift
supervisors. See Stein Br. in Support of Exceptions 58-59.

     We do not prejudge whether the historic bargaining units here are appropriate. We hold only
that the Board did not reasonably explain its conclusion. And, to simplify any litigation on remand,
we address one significant evidentiary ruling challenged here. The Board upheld the ALJ’s
exclusion of evidence of Stein’s cross-jurisdictional training and work assignments after March
2018. Stein, 369 N.L.R.B. No. 10, at 2 n.6. We review that evidentiary ruling for abuse of
discretion. Quicken Loans, Inc. v. NLRB, 830 F.3d 542, 551 (D.C. Cir. 2016). We find none here
because changes made after the unions demanded recognition have little relevance to the question
whether the existing units remained appropriate when Stein’s bargaining obligation allegedly
attached. See, e.g., Banknote Corp. of Am., 315 N.L.R.B. 1041, 1043 (1994), enf’d, 84 F.3d 637
(2d Cir. 1996). We therefore grant that part of the Board’s cross-application for enforcement.

                                                III

     We grant Stein’s and the Engineers’ petitions for review and set aside the Board’s adjudication
of unfair labor practices. We deny the Teamsters’ and Laborers’ petitions for review, which seek
to establish additional unfair labor practices predicated on Stein’s status as TMS’s statutory
successor. We deny the Board’s cross-application for enforcement, except as to its evidentiary
ruling, and remand for further proceedings consistent with this judgment.

     The Clerk is directed to withhold the issuance of the mandate until seven days after resolution
of any timely petition for rehearing or rehearing en banc. See Fed. R. App. P. 41(b); D.C. Cir. R.
41.


                                           Per Curiam


                                                             FOR THE COURT:
                                                             Clifton B. Cislak, Clerk

                                                      BY: /s/
                                                            Daniel J. Reidy
                                                            Deputy Clerk




                                                 5
