 United States Court of Appeals
         FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT



Argued January 8, 2010                 Decided April 6, 2010

                         No. 08-1291

                 COMCAST CORPORATION,
                     PETITIONER

                             v.

   FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION AND UNITED
               STATES OF AMERICA,
                  RESPONDENTS

                 NBC UNIVERSAL, ET AL.,
                     INTERVENORS


             On Petition for Review of an Order
        of the Federal Communications Commission



    Helgi C. Walker argued the cause for petitioner. With
her on the briefs were Eve Klindera Reed, Elbert Lin, David
P. Murray, James L. Casserly, and David H. Solomon.

    Howard J. Symons argued the cause for intervenors
National Cable & Telecommunications Association and NBC
Universal. With him on the briefs were Neal M. Goldberg,
Michael S. Schooler, and Margaret L. Tobey. Richard Cotton
entered an appearance.
                              2
    Kyle D. Dixon was on the brief for amici curiae
Professors James B. Speta and Glen O. Robinson and The
Progress and Freedom Foundation in support of petitioner.

    Austin C. Schlick, General Counsel, Federal
Communications Commission, argued the cause for
respondents. With him on the brief were Catherine G.
O'Sullivan and Nancy C. Garrison, Attorneys, U.S.
Department of Justice, Joseph R. Palmore, Deputy General
Counsel, Federal Communications Commission, Richard K.
Welch, Deputy Associate General Counsel, and Joel Marcus,
Counsel. Daniel M. Armstrong III, Associate General
Counsel, entered an appearance.

    Marvin Ammori argued the cause for intervenors Free
Press, et al. in support of respondents. With him on the brief
were Henry Goldberg, Harold Feld, and Andrew Jay
Schwartzman.

    John F. Blevins was on the brief for amici curiae
Professors Jack M. Balkin, et al. in support of respondents.

    Before: SENTELLE, Chief Judge, TATEL, Circuit Judge,
and RANDOLPH, Senior Circuit Judge.

    Opinion for the Court filed by Circuit Judge TATEL.

     TATEL, Circuit Judge: In this case we must decide
whether the Federal Communications Commission has
authority to regulate an Internet service provider’s network
management practices. Acknowledging that it has no express
statutory authority over such practices, the Commission relies
on section 4(i) of the Communications Act of 1934, which
authorizes the Commission to “perform any and all acts, make
such rules and regulations, and issue such orders, not
                              3
inconsistent with this chapter, as may be necessary in the
execution of its functions.” 47 U.S.C. § 154(i). The
Commission may exercise this “ancillary” authority only if it
demonstrates that its action—here barring Comcast from
interfering with its customers’ use of peer-to-peer networking
applications—is “reasonably ancillary to the . . . effective
performance of its statutorily mandated responsibilities.” Am.
Library Ass’n v. FCC, 406 F.3d 689, 692 (D.C. Cir. 2005).
The Commission has failed to make that showing. It relies
principally on several Congressional statements of policy, but
under Supreme Court and D.C. Circuit case law statements of
policy, by themselves, do not create “statutorily mandated
responsibilities.” The Commission also relies on various
provisions of the Communications Act that do create such
responsibilities, but for a variety of substantive and
procedural reasons those provisions cannot support its
exercise of ancillary authority over Comcast’s network
management practices. We therefore grant Comcast’s petition
for review and vacate the challenged order.

                              I.
     In 2007 several subscribers to Comcast’s high-speed
Internet service discovered that the company was interfering
with their use of peer-to-peer networking applications. See
Peter Svensson, Comcast Blocks Some Internet Traffic,
ASSOCIATED PRESS, Oct. 19, 2007. Peer-to-peer programs
allow users to share large files directly with one another
without going through a central server. Such programs also
consume significant amounts of bandwidth.

    Challenging Comcast’s action, two non-profit advocacy
organizations, Free Press and Public Knowledge, filed a
complaint with the Federal Communications Commission
and, together with a coalition of public interest groups and
law professors, a petition for declaratory ruling. Compl. of
                               4
Free Press & Public Knowledge Against Comcast Corp., File
No. EB-08-IH-1518 (Nov. 1, 2007) (“Compl.”); Pet. of Free
Press et al. for Decl. Ruling, WC Docket No. 07-52 (Nov. 1,
2007) (“Pet.”). Both filings argued that Comcast’s actions
“violat[ed] the FCC’s Internet Policy Statement.” Compl.
at 1; Pet. at i. Issued two years earlier, that statement
“adopt[ed] the . . . principles” that “consumers are entitled to
access the lawful Internet content of their choice . . . [and] to
run applications and use services of their choice.” In re
Appropriate Framework for Broadband Access to the Internet
Over Wireline Facilities, 20 F.C.C.R. 14,986, 14,988, ¶ 4
(2005). Comcast defended its interference with peer-to-peer
programs as necessary to manage scarce network capacity.
Comments of Comcast Corp. at 14, WC Docket No. 07-52
(Feb. 12, 2008).

     Following a period of public comment, the Commission
issued the order challenged here. In re Formal Compl. of
Free Press & Public Knowledge Against Comcast Corp. for
Secretly Degrading Peer-to-Peer Applications, 23 F.C.C.R.
13,028 (2008) (Order).        The Commission began by
concluding not only that it had jurisdiction over Comcast’s
network management practices, but also that it could resolve
the dispute through adjudication rather than through
rulemaking. Id. at 13,033–50, ¶¶ 12–40. On the merits, the
Commission ruled that Comcast had “significantly impeded
consumers’ ability to access the content and use the
applications of their choice,” id. at 13,054, ¶ 44, and that
because Comcast “ha[d] several available options it could use
to manage network traffic without discriminating” against
peer-to-peer communications, id. at 13,057, ¶ 49, its method
of bandwidth management “contravene[d] . . . federal policy,”
id. at 13,052, ¶ 43. Because by then Comcast had agreed to
adopt a new system for managing bandwidth demand, the
Commission simply ordered it to make a set of disclosures
                               5
describing the details of its new approach and the company’s
progress toward implementing it. Id. at 13,059–60, ¶ 54. The
Commission added that an injunction would automatically
issue should Comcast either fail to make the required
disclosures or renege on its commitment. Id. at 13,060, ¶ 55.

     Although Comcast complied with the Order, it now
petitions for review, presenting three objections. First, it
contends that the Commission has failed to justify exercising
jurisdiction over its network management practices. Second,
it argues that the Commission’s adjudicatory action was
procedurally flawed because it circumvented the rulemaking
requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act and
violated the notice requirements of the Due Process Clause.
Finally, it asserts that parts of the Order are so poorly
reasoned as to be arbitrary and capricious. We begin—and
end—with Comcast’s jurisdictional challenge.

                               II.
     Through the Communications Act of 1934, ch. 652, 48
Stat. 1064, as amended over the decades, 47 U.S.C. § 151 et
seq., Congress has given the Commission express and
expansive authority to regulate common carrier services,
including landline telephony, id. § 201 et seq. (Title II of the
Act); radio transmissions, including broadcast television,
radio, and cellular telephony, id. § 301 et seq. (Title III); and
“cable services,” including cable television, id. § 521 et seq.
(Title VI). In this case, the Commission does not claim that
Congress has given it express authority to regulate Comcast’s
Internet service. Indeed, in its still-binding 2002 Cable
Modem Order, the Commission ruled that cable Internet
service is neither a “telecommunications service” covered by
Title II of the Communications Act nor a “cable service”
covered by Title VI. In re High-Speed Access to the Internet
Over Cable and Other Facilities, 17 F.C.C.R. 4798, 4802, ¶ 7
                               6
(2002), aff’d Nat’l Cable & Telecomms. Ass’n v. Brand X
Internet Servs., 545 U.S. 967 (2005). The Commission
therefore rests its assertion of authority over Comcast’s
network management practices on the broad language of
section 4(i) of the Act: “The Commission may perform any
and all acts, make such rules and regulations, and issue such
orders, not inconsistent with this chapter, as may be necessary
in the execution of its functions,” 47 U.S.C. § 154(i). Order,
23 F.C.C.R. at 13,036, ¶ 15.

     Courts have come to call the Commission’s section 4(i)
power its “ancillary” authority, a label that derives from three
foundational Supreme Court decisions: United States v.
Southwestern Cable Co., 392 U.S. 157 (1968), United States
v. Midwest Video Corp., 406 U.S. 649 (1972) (Midwest
Video I), and FCC v. Midwest Video Corp., 440 U.S. 689
(1979) (Midwest Video II). All three cases dealt with
Commission jurisdiction over early cable systems at a time
when, as with the Internet today, the Communications Act
gave the Commission no express authority to regulate such
systems. (Title VI, which gives the Commission jurisdiction
over “cable services,” was not added to the statute until 1984.
See Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, Pub. L. No.
98-549, 98 Stat. 2779.)

     In the first case, Southwestern Cable, the Supreme Court
considered a challenge to a Commission order restricting the
geographic area in which a cable company could operate. 392
U.S. at 160. At that time, cable television, then known as
“community antenna television” (CATV), functioned quite
differently than it does today. Employing strategically
located antennae, these early cable systems simply received
over-the-air television broadcasts and retransmitted them by
cable to their subscribers. Id. at 161–62. Although they
rarely produced their own programming, they improved
                               7
reception and allowed subscribers to receive television
programs from distant stations. Id. at 162–63. Seeking to
protect Commission-licensed local broadcasters, the
Commission adopted rules limiting the extent to which cable
systems could retransmit distant signals and, in the order at
issue in Southwestern Cable, applied this policy to a particular
company.      The Supreme Court sustained that order,
explaining     that    even     though     the    then-existing
Communications Act gave the Commission no express
authority over cable television, the Commission could
nonetheless regulate cable television to the extent “reasonably
ancillary to the effective performance of the Commission’s
various responsibilities for the regulation of television
broadcasting.” Id. at 178. Four years later, in Midwest
Video I, the Court again sustained the Commission’s use of its
ancillary authority, this time to support issuance of a
regulation that required cable operators to facilitate the
creation of new programs and to transmit them alongside
broadcast programs they captured from the air. 406 U.S. at
670.     In Midwest Video II, the Court rejected the
Commission’s assertion of ancillary authority, setting aside
regulations that required cable systems to make certain
channels available for public use. 440 U.S. at 708–09.

     We recently distilled the holdings of these three cases
into a two-part test. In American Library Ass’n v. FCC, we
wrote: “The Commission . . . may exercise ancillary
jurisdiction only when two conditions are satisfied: (1) the
Commission’s general jurisdictional grant under Title I [of the
Communications Act] covers the regulated subject and (2) the
regulations are reasonably ancillary to the Commission’s
effective performance of its statutorily mandated
responsibilities.” 406 F.3d at 691–92; see also Order, 23
F.C.C.R. at 13,035, ¶ 15 n.64 (citing the American Library
test). Comcast concedes that the Commission’s action here
                               8
satisfies the first requirement because the company’s Internet
service qualifies as “interstate and foreign communication by
wire” within the meaning of Title I of the Communications
Act. 47 U.S.C. § 152(a). Whether the Commission’s action
satisfies American Library’s second requirement is the central
issue in this case.

                              III.
    Before addressing that issue, however, we must consider
two threshold arguments the Commission raises. First, it
asserts that given a contrary position Comcast took in a
California lawsuit, the company should be judicially estopped
from challenging the Commission’s jurisdiction over the
company’s network management practices. Second, the
Commission argues that even if Comcast’s challenge can
proceed, we need not go through our usual ancillary authority
analysis because a recent Supreme Court decision, National
Cable & Telecommunications Ass’n v. Brand X Internet
Services, 545 U.S. 967, makes clear that the Commission had
authority to issue the Order.

                              A.
     Courts may invoke judicial estoppel “[w]here a party
assumes a certain position in a legal proceeding, . . . succeeds
in maintaining that position, . . . [and then,] simply because
his interests have changed, assume[s] a contrary position.”
New Hampshire v. Maine, 532 U.S. 742, 749 (2001) (internal
quotation marks omitted). For judicial estoppel to apply,
however, “a party’s later position must be ‘clearly
inconsistent’ with its earlier position.” Id. at 750 (quoting
United States v. Hook, 195 F.3d 299, 306 (7th Cir. 1999)).
“Doubts about inconsistency often should be resolved by
assuming there is no disabling inconsistency, so that the
second matter may be resolved on the merits.” 18B CHARLES
                               9
ALAN WRIGHT, ARTHUR R. MILLER & EDWARD H. COOPER,
FEDERAL PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE §4477, at 594 (2d ed.
2002).

     The Commission’s estoppel argument rests on the
position Comcast took while defending against a civil action
in a California federal court. In that case, one of Comcast’s
Internet customers challenged the company’s interference
with peer-to-peer programs at the same time Free Press and
Public Knowledge were pressing their own challenges before
the Commission. Comcast responded by moving to stay the
litigation pending resolution of the Commission proceedings.
In support, it invoked the “primary jurisdiction doctrine,”
arguing that “a court is ‘obliged to defer’ to an agency where
the ‘issue brought before a court is in the process of litigation
through procedures originating in the [agency].’” Def.’s
Mem. of Law in Supp. of Mot. for J. on Pleadings at 10, Hart
v. Comcast of Alameda, Inc., No. 07-6350 (N.D. Cal. 2008)
(“Comcast Cal. Mem.”) (quoting Fed. Power Comm’n v. La.
Power & Light Co., 406 U.S. 621, 647 (1972)). In language
the Commission now emphasizes, Comcast continued: “Any
inquiry into whether Comcast’s [peer-to-peer] management is
unlawful falls squarely within the FCC’s subject matter
jurisdiction.” Id. Persuaded, the district court granted the
requested stay.

    According to the Commission, when Comcast argued that
the Commission has “subject matter jurisdiction” over its
disputed network management practices, it was saying that
any action by the Commission to prohibit those practices
would satisfy both elements of the American Library test and
thus lie within the Commission’s ancillary authority.
“Because Comcast prevailed . . . on [that] theory,” the
Commission contends, “it should be estopped from arguing
the opposite here.” Resp’t’s Br. 30. For its part, Comcast
                               10
insists it never argued that the Commission could justify
exercising ancillary authority over its network management
practices.    Instead, it claims that in saying that the
Commission possesses “subject matter jurisdiction” over
those practices, it was arguing no more than what it concedes
here, namely that its Internet service constitutes
“communication by wire” within the meaning of American
Library’s first requirement. Interpreted that way, Comcast’s
California position does not conflict with the argument it
makes here, which rests on American Library’s second
requirement: that the Commission must show that its
regulation of Comcast’s Internet service is “reasonably
ancillary to the Commission’s effective performance of its
statutorily mandated responsibilities.” 406 F.3d at 692.

     Although the parties’ competing interpretations of
Comcast’s California argument are both plausible, Comcast’s
is more so. For one thing, its interpretation comports with the
overall primary jurisdiction argument it advanced in that case.
As a leading administrative law treatise explains, “The
question of whether an issue is within [an] agency’s primary
jurisdiction is different from the question of whether the
agency actually has exclusive statutory jurisdiction to resolve
an issue.” 2 RICHARD J. PIERCE, JR., ADMINISTRATIVE LAW
TREATISE § 14.1, at 1162 (5th ed. 2010). Specifically, for an
issue to fall within an agency’s primary jurisdiction, the
agency need not possess definite authority to resolve it; rather,
there need only be “sufficient statutory support for
administrative authority . . . that the agency should at least be
requested to . . . proceed[]” in the first instance. Ricci v.
Chicago Mercantile Exch., 409 U.S. 289, 304, 300 (1973)
(holding that a dispute fell within the Commodity Exchange
Commission’s primary jurisdiction where the Commodity
Exchange Act “at least arguably protected or prohibited” the
conduct at issue). Given this standard, and given that then, as
                               11
now, the Commission claimed ancillary authority over
Comcast’s network management practices, the company
could plausibly argue in the California case (as it claims it
did) that deference to the Commission’s primary jurisdiction
was appropriate merely because the disputed practices
involved “communication by wire”—American Library’s first
requirement. And as Comcast emphasized in the California
case, the Commission was already “actively investigating” the
company’s network management practices, Comcast Cal.
Mem. at 11, increasing the risk that the civil case could
disrupt the regulatory process. See PIERCE, ADMINISTRATIVE
LAW TREATISE § 14.1, at 1162 (“[D]etermination of the
agency’s primary jurisdiction involves a . . . pragmatic
evaluation of the advantages and disadvantages of allowing
the agency to resolve an issue in the first instance.”).
Therefore, the California court could have fairly concluded
under the primary jurisdiction doctrine that the Commission
should determine in the first instance whether regulating
Comcast’s network management practices would be
“reasonably ancillary to the Commission’s effective
performance of its statutorily mandated responsibilities”—
American Library’s second requirement. 406 F.3d at 692.

     Reinforcing Comcast’s interpretation, the Commission
itself generally uses “subject matter jurisdiction” to refer only
to the first part of the American Library test rather than the
test as a whole. For example, in an earlier Internet-related
order (cited by Comcast in its California brief), the
Commission wrote that it “may exercise its ancillary
jurisdiction when Title I of the Act gives the Commission
subject matter jurisdiction over the service to be regulated
and the assertion of jurisdiction is reasonably ancillary to the
effective performance of its various responsibilities.” In re
Appropriate Framework for Broadband Access to the Internet
Over Wireline Facilities, 20 F.C.C.R. 14,853, 14,913–14,
                             12
¶ 109 (2005) (emphasis added) (internal quotation marks and
alteration omitted); accord In re Consumer Information and
Disclosure, 24 F.C.C.R. 11,380, 11,400, ¶ 62 (2009); In re IP-
Enabled Services, 24 F.C.C.R. 6039, 6044–45, ¶ 9 (2009); In
re High-Cost Universal Service Support, 24 F.C.C.R. 6475,
6540, ¶ 101 (2008).

     We thus do not interpret Comcast’s California argument
as “inconsistent” with its argument here, let alone “clearly”
so. New Hampshire, 532 U.S. at 750 (internal quotation
marks omitted). Because Comcast never clearly argued in the
California litigation that the Commission’s assertion of
authority over the company’s network management practices
would be “reasonably ancillary to the Commission’s effective
performance of its statutorily mandated responsibilities”
(American Library’s second requirement), 406 F.3d at 692,
that question remains for us to answer.

                             B.
     The Commission’s second threshold argument is that the
Supreme Court’s decision in Brand X “already decided the
jurisdictional question here.” Resp’t’s Br. 20. In that case,
the Court reviewed the Commission’s 2002 Cable Modem
Order, supra at 5–6, which removed cable Internet service
from Title II and Title VI oversight by classifying it as an
“information service.” See Brand X, 545 U.S. at 978.
Challenging that determination, Brand X argued that cable
Internet actually comprises a bundle of two services: an
“information service” not subject to Commission regulation
and a “telecommunications service” subject to mandatory
Title II regulation. Id. at 990–91. Brand X pressed this
argument because if Title II applied to cable Internet, then,
under its view, cable companies would have to unbundle the
components of their Internet services, thus allowing Brand X
and other independent Internet service providers (ISPs) to use
                               13
the telecommunications component of those bundles to offer
competing Internet service over cable company wires. Brand
X Resp’ts’ Br. at 10, Brand X, 545 U.S. 967 (No. 04-277)
(“[I]f the telecommunications component of cable modem
service is a ‘telecommunications service,’ and hence common
carriage, . . . [c]ustomers then will be able to choose their
provider of Internet services.”).

     Although the Supreme Court acknowledged that cable
Internet service does contain a telecommunications
“component,” it deferred to the Commission’s determination
that this component is “functionally integrated” into a single
“offering” properly classified as an “information service.”
545 U.S. at 991. Using language the Commission now
emphasizes, the Court went on to say that “the Commission
remains free to impose special regulatory duties on [cable
Internet providers] under its Title I ancillary jurisdiction.” Id.
at 996.     In particular, the Court suggested that the
Commission could likely “require cable companies to allow
independent ISPs access to their facilities” pursuant to its
ancillary authority, rather than using Title II as Brand X
urged. Id. at 1002. According to the Commission, this means
that “the FCC has authority over [information service
providers] under its Title I ancillary jurisdiction.” Resp’t’s
Br. 20.

     Comcast insists that the references to ancillary
jurisdiction in Brand X are dicta: “Brand X presented the
question whether the FCC had permissibly classified cable
Internet services as ‘information services,’ not whether any
particular regulation of such services was within the agency’s
statutory authority.” Pet’r’s Br. 53. Although Comcast may
well be correct, “carefully considered language of the
Supreme Court, even if technically dictum, generally must be
treated as authoritative.” United States v. Oakar, 111 F.3d
                               14
146, 153 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (internal quotation marks and
alteration omitted). In the end, however, we need not decide
whether the Court’s discussion of ancillary authority in Brand
X qualifies as “authoritative,” for even if it does the
Commission stretches the Court’s words too far. By leaping
from Brand X’s observation that the Commission’s ancillary
authority may allow it to impose some kinds of obligations on
cable Internet providers to a claim of plenary authority over
such providers, the Commission runs afoul of Southwestern
Cable and Midwest Video I.

     In Southwestern Cable, in which the Court first
recognized the Commission’s ancillary authority, it expressly
reserved for future cases the question whether particular
regulations fall within that power. Although the Court upheld
the cable television order at issue, it declined “to determine in
detail the limits of the Commission’s authority to regulate
CATV.” 392 U.S. at 178. Then in Midwest Video I, the
Court made clear that the permissibility of each new exercise
of ancillary authority must be evaluated on its own terms.
That is, the Court asked whether the particular regulation at
issue was “reasonably ancillary to the effective performance
of the Commission’s various responsibilities for the
regulation of television broadcasting.” 406 U.S. at 670
(plurality opinion) (internal quotation marks omitted); see
also id. at 675 (Burger, C.J., concurring). Contrary to the
kind of inference the Commission would have us draw from
Brand X, nothing in Midwest Video I even hints that
Southwestern Cable’s recognition of ancillary authority over
one aspect of cable television meant that the Commission had
plenary authority over all aspects of cable.

     We made just this point in National Ass’n of Regulatory
Utility Commissioners v. FCC, 533 F.2d 601 (D.C. Cir. 1976)
(NARUC II). There we reviewed a series of Commission
                              15
orders that preempted state regulation of non-video uses of
cable systems, including precursors to modern cable modem
service. See id. at 616 (“[T]he point-to-point communications
. . . involve one computer talking to another . . . .”). Leaning
on its recent victories in Southwestern Cable and Midwest
Video I, the Commission argued—similar to the way it uses
Brand X here—that the combined force of those two
“affirmances of FCC powers over cable must be seen as
establishing a jurisdiction over all activities of cable
operators.” Id. at 611. We rejected that argument, explaining
that Southwestern Cable and Midwest Video I foreclosed the
Commission’s broad view of ancillary authority. We pointed
out that in Southwestern Cable the Court “stated explicitly
that its holding was limited to . . . reasonably ancillary
activities, and expressly declined to comment on ‘the
Commission’s authority, if any, to regulate CATV under any
other circumstances or for any other purposes.’” Id. at 612–
13 (quoting Southwestern Cable, 392 U.S. at 178). We
similarly noted that in Midwest Video I the plurality “relied
explicitly on the Southwestern reasoning, and devoted
substantial attention to establishing the requisite
‘ancillariness’ between the Commission’s authority over
broadcasting and the particular regulation before the Court.”
Id. at 613. Neither case, we concluded, “recogniz[ed] any
sweeping authority over [cable] as a whole.” Id. at 612.
Instead, they “command[ed] that each and every assertion of
jurisdiction over cable television must be independently
justified as reasonably ancillary to the Commission’s power
over broadcasting.” Id. (emphasis added).

    Echoing this interpretation, the Supreme Court in
Midwest Video II described Southwestern Cable “as
conferring on the Commission a circumscribed range of
power to regulate cable television,” a determination
“reaffirmed” in Midwest Video I. 440 U.S. at 696. “The
                             16
question now before us,” the Court continued, “is whether the
[Communications] Act, as construed in these two cases,
authorizes the capacity and access regulations that are here
under challenge.” Id. The Court ultimately concluded that it
did not, thus reinforcing the principle that the Commission
must defend its exercise of ancillary authority on a case-by-
case basis.

     To be sure, Brand X dealt with the Internet, not cable
television. Nothing in Brand X, however, suggests that the
Court was abandoning the fundamental approach to ancillary
authority set forth in Southwestern Cable, Midwest Video I,
and Midwest Video II. Accordingly, the Commission cannot
justify regulating the network management practices of cable
Internet providers simply by citing Brand X’s recognition that
it may have ancillary authority to require such providers to
unbundle the components of their services. These are
altogether different regulatory requirements. Brand X no
more dictates the result of this case than Southwestern Cable
dictated the results of Midwest Video I, NARUC II, and
Midwest Video II. The Commission’s exercise of ancillary
authority over Comcast’s network management practices
must, to repeat, “be independently justified.” NARUC II, 533
F.2d at 612. It is to that issue that we now turn.

                             IV.
     The Commission argues that the Order satisfies
American Library’s second requirement because it is
“reasonably ancillary to the Commission’s effective
performance” of its responsibilities under several provisions
of the Communications Act. These provisions fall into two
categories: those that the parties agree set forth only
congressional policy and those that at least arguably delegate
regulatory authority to the Commission. We consider each in
turn.
                                17
                                A.
     The Commission relies principally on section 230(b), part
of a provision entitled “Protection for private blocking and
screening of offensive material,” 47 U.S.C. § 230, that grants
civil immunity for such blocking to providers of interactive
computer services, id. § 230(c)(2). Setting forth the policies
underlying this protection, section 230(b) states, in relevant
part, that “[i]t is the policy of the United States . . . to promote
the continued development of the Internet and other
interactive computer services” and “to encourage the
development of technologies which maximize user control
over what information is received by individuals, families,
and schools who use the Internet.” Id. § 230(b). In this case
the Commission found that Comcast’s network management
practices frustrated both objectives. Order, 23 F.C.C.R. at
13,052–53, ¶ 43.

     In addition to section 230(b), the Commission relies on
section 1, in which Congress set forth its reasons for creating
the Commission in 1934: “For the purpose of regulating
interstate and foreign commerce in communication by wire
and radio so as to make available, so far as possible, to all the
people of the United States . . . a rapid, efficient, Nation-wide,
and world-wide wire and radio communication service . . . at
reasonable charges, . . . there is created a commission to be
known as the ‘Federal Communications Commission’ . . . .”
47 U.S.C. § 151. The Commission found that “prohibiting
unreasonable network discrimination directly furthers the goal
of making broadband Internet access service both ‘rapid’ and
‘efficient.’” Order, 23 F.C.C.R. at 13,036–37, ¶ 16.

    Comcast argues that neither section 230(b) nor section 1
can support the Commission’s exercise of ancillary authority
because the two provisions amount to nothing more than
congressional “statements of policy.” Pet’r’s Br. 46. Such
                              18
statements, Comcast contends, “are not an operative part of
the statute, and do not enlarge or confer powers on
administrative agencies. As such, they necessarily fail to set
forth ‘statutorily mandated responsibilities’” within the
meaning of American Library. Id. at 47 (citations, internal
quotation marks, and alteration omitted).

     The Commission acknowledges that section 230(b) and
section 1 are statements of policy that themselves delegate no
regulatory authority. Still, the Commission maintains that the
two provisions, like all provisions of the Communications
Act, set forth “statutorily mandated responsibilities” that can
anchor the exercise of ancillary authority. “The operative
provisions of statutes are those which declare the legislative
will,” the Commission asserts. Resp’t’s Br. 39 (internal
quotation marks and alteration omitted).           “Here, the
legislative will has been declared by Congress in the form of a
policy, along with an express grant of authority to the FCC to
perform all actions necessary to execute and enforce all the
provisions of the Communications Act.” Id.

     In support of its reliance on congressional statements of
policy, the Commission points out that in both Southwestern
Cable and Midwest Video I the Supreme Court linked the
challenged Commission actions to the furtherance of various
congressional “goals,” “objectives,” and “policies.” See, e.g.,
Southwestern Cable, 392 U.S. at 175; Midwest Video I, 406
U.S. at 665, 669 (plurality opinion). In particular, the
Commission notes that in Midwest Video I, the plurality
accepted its argument that the Commission’s “concern with
CATV carriage of broadcast signals . . . extends . . . to
requiring CATV affirmatively to further statutory policies.”
406 U.S. at 664 (plurality opinion) (emphasis added) (internal
quotation marks omitted). According to the Commission,
since congressional statements of policy were sufficient to
                             19
support ancillary authority over cable television, it may
likewise rely on such statements—section 230(b) and
section 1—to exercise ancillary authority over the network
management practices of Internet providers.

     We read Southwestern Cable and Midwest Video I quite
differently. In those cases, the Supreme Court relied on
policy statements not because, standing alone, they set out
“statutorily mandated responsibilities,” but rather because
they did so in conjunction with an express delegation of
authority to the Commission, i.e., Title III’s authority to
regulate broadcasting. In Southwestern Cable, the
Commission argued that restricting the geographic reach of
cable television was necessary to fulfill its Title III
responsibility to foster local broadcast service. The Court
agreed, explaining that “Congress has imposed upon the
Commission the ‘obligation of providing a widely dispersed
radio and television service,’ with a ‘fair, efficient, and
equitable distribution’ of service among the ‘several States
and communities.’ The Commission has, for this and other
purposes, been granted authority to allocate broadcasting
zones or areas, and to provide regulations ‘as it may deem
necessary’ to prevent interference among the various
stations.” 392 U.S. at 173–74 (citation and footnote omitted)
(quoting S. REP. NO. 86-923, at 7 (1959), 47 U.S.C. § 307(b),
303(f)). The Court concluded that “the Commission has
reasonably found that the successful performance of these
duties demands prompt and efficacious regulation of
community antenna television systems.”          Id. at 177.
Nonetheless, the Court “emphasize[d] that the authority which
we recognize today . . . is restricted to that reasonably
ancillary to the effective performance of the Commission's
various responsibilities for the regulation of television
broadcasting.” Id. at 178 (emphasis added).
                              20
     In Midwest Video I, the Court again made clear that it
was sustaining the challenged regulation—requiring cable
companies to originate their own programming—only
because of its connection to the Commission’s Title III
authority over broadcasting. A four-Justice plurality agreed
with the Commission that the challenged rule would “further
the achievement of long-established regulatory goals in the
field of television broadcasting by increasing the number of
outlets for community self-expression and augmenting the
public’s choice of programs and types of services.” 406 U.S.
at 667–68 (plurality opinion) (internal quotation marks
omitted). Because the regulation “preserve[d] and enhance[d]
the integrity of broadcast signals” it satisfied Southwestern
Cable, i.e., it was “reasonably ancillary to the effective
performance of the Commission's various responsibilities for
the regulation of television broadcasting.” Id. at 670
(emphasis added) (internal quotation marks omitted). Chief
Justice Burger made the same point in a controlling
concurring opinion: “CATV is dependent totally on broadcast
signals and is a significant link in the system as a whole and
therefore must be seen as within the jurisdiction of the Act.”
Id. at 675 (Burger, C.J., concurring). That said, he warned,
“candor requires acknowledgment . . . that the Commission’s
position strains the outer limits of” its authority. Id. at 676.

     The Commission exceeded those “outer limits” in both
NARUC II and Midwest Video II. In NARUC II, the
Commission defended its exercise of ancillary authority over
non-video cable communications (as it does here with respect
to Comcast’s network management practices) on the basis of
section 1’s “overall statutory mandate to make available, so
far as possible, to all the people of the United States a rapid,
efficient, [N]ation-wide, and world-wide wire and radio
communications service.” 533 F.2d at 606 (internal quotation
marks and alteration omitted). The Commission “reasoned
                              21
that this language called for the development of a nationwide
broadband communications grid in which cable systems
should play an important part.” Id. (internal quotation marks
omitted).     We rejected that argument.          Relying on
Southwestern Cable and Midwest Video I, we began by
explaining that the Commission’s ancillary authority “is really
incidental to, and contingent upon, specifically delegated
powers under the Act.” Id. at 612 (emphasis added).
Applying that standard, we found it “difficult to see how any
action which the Commission might take concerning two-way
cable communications could have as its primary impact the
furtherance of any broadcast purpose.” Id. at 615. Because
the regulations had not been “justified as reasonably ancillary
to the Commission’s power over broadcasting,” id. at 612, we
vacated them.

     In Midwest Video II, the Supreme Court rejected the
Commission’s assertion of ancillary authority to impose a
public access requirement on certain cable channels because
doing so would “relegate[] cable systems . . . to common-
carrier status.” 440 U.S. at 700–01. Pointing out that the
Communications Act expressly prohibits common carrier
regulation of broadcasters, id. at 702, the Court held that
given the derivative nature of ancillary jurisdiction the same
prohibition applied to the Commission’s regulation of cable
providers. The Commission had opposed this logic, arguing
that it could regulate “so long as the rules promote statutory
objectives.” Id. The Court rejected that broad claim and,
revealing the flaw in the argument the Commission makes
here, emphasized that “without reference to the provisions of
the Act directly governing broadcasting, the Commission's
[ancillary] jurisdiction . . . would be unbounded.” Id. at 706
(emphasis added). “Though afforded wide latitude in its
supervision over communication by wire,” the Court added,
                               22
“the Commission was not delegated unrestrained authority.”
Id.

      The teaching of Southwestern Cable, Midwest Video I,
Midwest Video II, and NARUC II—that policy statements
alone cannot provide the basis for the Commission’s exercise
of ancillary authority—derives from the “axiomatic” principle
that “administrative agencies may [act] only pursuant to
authority delegated to them by Congress.” Am. Library, 406
F.3d at 691. Policy statements are just that—statements of
policy. They are not delegations of regulatory authority. To
be sure, statements of congressional policy can help delineate
the contours of statutory authority. Consider, for example, the
various services over which the Commission enjoys express
statutory authority. When exercising its Title II authority to
set “just and reasonable” rates for phone service, 47 U.S.C.
§ 201(b), or its Title III authority to grant broadcasting
licenses in the “public convenience, interest, or necessity,” id.
§ 307(a), or its Title VI authority to prohibit “unfair methods
of competition” by cable operators that limit consumer access
to certain types of television programming, id. § 548(b), the
Commission must bear in mind section 1’s objective of
“Nation-wide . . . wire and radio communication service . . . at
reasonable charges,” id. § 151. In all three examples, section
1’s policy goal undoubtedly illuminates the scope of the
“authority delegated to [the Commission] by Congress,” Am.
Library, 406 F.3d at 691—though it is Titles II, III, and VI
that do the delegating.         So too with respect to the
Commission’s section 4(i) ancillary authority. Although
policy statements may illuminate that authority, it is Title II,
III, or VI to which the authority must ultimately be ancillary.

    In this case the Commission cites neither section 230(b)
nor section 1 to shed light on any express statutory delegation
of authority found in Title II, III, VI, or, for that matter,
                              23
anywhere else. That is, unlike the way it successfully
employed policy statements in Southwestern Cable and
Midwest Video I, the Commission does not rely on section
230(b) or section 1 to argue that its regulation of an activity
over which it concededly has no express statutory authority
(here Comcast’s Internet management practices) is necessary
to further its regulation of activities over which it does have
express statutory authority (here, for example, Comcast’s
management of its Title VI cable services). In this respect,
this case is just like NARUC II. On the record before us, we
see “no relationship whatever,” NARUC II, 533 F.2d at 616,
between the Order and services subject to Commission
regulation. Perhaps the Commission could use section 230(b)
or section 1 to demonstrate such a connection, but that is not
how it employs them here.

     Instead, the Commission maintains that congressional
policy by itself creates “statutorily mandated responsibilities”
sufficient to support the exercise of section 4(i) ancillary
authority. Not only is this argument flatly inconsistent with
Southwestern Cable, Midwest Video I, Midwest Video II, and
NARUC II, but if accepted it would virtually free the
Commission from its congressional tether. As the Court
explained in Midwest Video II, “without reference to the
provisions of the Act” expressly granting regulatory authority,
“the Commission’s [ancillary] jurisdiction . . . would be
unbounded.” 440 U.S. at 706. Indeed, Commission counsel
told us at oral argument that just as the Order seeks to make
Comcast’s Internet service more “rapid” and “efficient,”
Order, 23 F.C.C.R. 13,036–37, ¶ 16, the Commission could
someday subject Comcast’s Internet service to pervasive rate
regulation to ensure that the company provides the service at
“reasonable charges,” 47 U.S.C. § 151. Oral Arg. Tr. 58–59.
Were we to accept that theory of ancillary authority, we see
no reason why the Commission would have to stop there, for
                              24
we can think of few examples of regulations that apply to
Title II common carrier services, Title III broadcast services,
or Title VI cable services that the Commission, relying on the
broad policies articulated in section 230(b) and section 1,
would be unable to impose upon Internet service providers. If
in Midwest Video I the Commission “strain[ed] the outer
limits of even the open-ended and pervasive jurisdiction that
has evolved by decisions of the Commission and the courts,”
406 U.S. at 676 (Burger, C.J., concurring), and if in
NARUC II and Midwest Video II it exceeded those limits, then
here it seeks to shatter them entirely.

     Attempting to avoid this conclusion, the Commission
argues that in several more recent cases we upheld its use of
ancillary authority on the basis of policy statements alone. In
each of those cases, however, we sustained the exercise of
ancillary authority because, unlike here, the Commission had
linked the cited policies to express delegations of regulatory
authority.

      The Commission places particular emphasis on Computer
and Communications Industry Ass’n v. FCC, 693 F.2d 198
(D.C. Cir. 1982) (CCIA). There we considered a challenge to
the Commission’s landmark 1980 Computer II Order, in
which the Commission set forth regulatory ground rules for
common carriers that provided so-called enhanced services,
i.e., precursors to modern information services like cable
Internet. See In re Amend. of § 64.702 of the Comm’n’s Rules
and Regulations (Second Computer Inquiry), 77 F.C.C.2d
384, 385–89, ¶¶ 1–13 (1980). The petitioners argued that two
aspects of the Computer II Order exceeded the Commission’s
ancillary authority. First, the Commission had ruled that
AT&T, then the monopoly telephone provider throughout
most of the nation, could offer enhanced services only
through a separate subsidiary. CCIA, 693 F.2d at 205.
                             25
Second, the Commission had mandated that all common
carriers unbundle charges for “consumer premises equipment”
(CPE)—i.e., telephones, computer terminals, and other
similar devices—from their regulated tariffs. Id. We
sustained both requirements. Emphasizing, as we do here,
that Southwestern Cable “limited the Commission’s
jurisdiction to that which is reasonably ancillary to the
effective performance of the Commission’s various
responsibilities,” we explained that “[o]ne of those
responsibilities is to assure a nationwide system of wire
communications services at reasonable prices.” Id. at 213
(internal quotation marks omitted).      According to the
Commission, this latter language demonstrates that section 1
describes “statutorily mandated responsibilities.” But the
Commission reads our statement out of context.

     The crux of our decision in CCIA was that in its
Computer II Order the Commission had linked its exercise of
ancillary authority to its Title II responsibility over common
carrier rates—just the kind of connection to statutory
authority missing here. Thus, with respect to the AT&T
component of the order, we relied on the Commission’s
finding that “[r]egulation of enhanced services was . . .
necessary to prevent AT&T from burdening its basic
transmission service customers with part of the cost of
providing competitive enhanced services.” Id. “Given [the]
potentially symbiotic relationship between competitive and
monopoly services,” we concluded that “the agency charged
with ensuring that monopoly rates are just and reasonable can
legitimately exercise jurisdiction over the provision of
competitive services.” Id. We made the same point with
respect to the order’s CPE component: “[E]xercising
jurisdiction over CPE was necessary to carry out [the
Commission’s] duty to assure the availability of transmission
services at reasonable rates.” Id. So, when we wrote that
                              26
“[o]ne of [the Commission’s] responsibilities is to assure a
nationwide system of wire communications services at
reasonable prices,” id., we were using section 1’s language in
just the way required by Southwestern Cable, Midwest
Video I, Midwest Video II, and NARUC II: for the light it
sheds on the Commission’s Title II ratemaking power. In
other words, we viewed the Commission’s Computer II
Order—like the Supreme Court had viewed the regulations at
issue in Southwestern Cable—as regulation of services
otherwise beyond the Commission’s authority in order to
prevent frustration of a regulatory scheme expressly
authorized by statute.

     The Commission’s reliance on Rural Telephone
Coalition v. FCC, 838 F.2d 1307 (D.C. Cir. 1988), fares no
better. There we upheld the Commission’s creation of a
Universal Service Fund to provide subsidies for telephone
service in rural and other high-cost areas. Again borrowing
the language of section 1, we held that “[a]s the Universal
Service Fund was proposed in order to further the objective of
making communication service available to all Americans at
reasonable charges, the proposal was within the
Commission’s statutory authority.” Id. at 1315. Contrary to
the Commission’s argument, however, Rural Telephone, like
CCIA, rested not on section 1 alone, but on the fact that
creation of the Universal Service Fund was ancillary to the
Commission’s Title II responsibility to set reasonable
interstate telephone rates. True, as the Commission observes,
our discussion of ancillary authority never cites Title II. But
any such citation would simply have restated the obvious
given that the Commission established the Universal Service
Fund for the very purpose of “‘ensur[ing] that telephone rates
are within the means of the average subscriber in all areas of
the country.’” Id. at 1311–12 (emphasis added) (quoting In re
                              27
Amend. of Pt. 67 of the Comm’n’s Rules and Establishment of
a Joint Bd., 96 F.C.C.2d 781, 795, ¶ 30 (1984)).

     Next the Commission cites New York State Commission
on Cable Television v. FCC, 749 F.2d 804 (D.C. Cir. 1984),
in which we considered a challenge to a Commission order
preempting state regulation of early satellite television.
Because petitioner there never argued that the Commission’s
exercise of ancillary authority lacked sufficient grounding in
express statutory authority, New York State Commission did
not address the issue we now face. See id. at 808 (describing
petitioner’s challenge). Still, in sustaining the Commission’s
action, we noted that “[i]n its preemption order the
Commission based its authority over [satellite television]
upon the federal interest in ‘the unfettered development of
interstate transmission of satellite signals.’” Id. at 808
(quoting In re Earth Satellite Commc’ns, Inc., 95 F.C.C.2d
1223, 1230, ¶ 16 (1983)). According to the Commission, this
language demonstrates that ancillary authority may be
grounded in policy alone. Not so. Our statement does
nothing more than clearly and accurately describe what the
Commission actually did, i.e., supply a policy justification for
its decision. Significantly for the issue before us here, the
Commission’s preemption order also expressly linked its
exercise of ancillary authority over satellite television to its
Title III authority over users of radio spectrum. The
Commission noted that the reception facilities that states
sought to regulate (satellite dishes on hotel and apartment
building roofs) “initially were subject to Commission
licensing,” calling these receivers “absolutely essential
instrumentalities of radio broadcasting.” Earth Satellite
Commc’ns, 95 F.C.C.2d at 1231, ¶ 17 (internal quotation
marks omitted). The Commission also cited section 303,
which provides that “the Commission . . . as public
convenience, interest, or necessity requires, shall . . .
                                28
[c]lassify radio stations; . . . [p]rescribe the nature of the
service to be rendered by each class of licensed stations and
each station within any class; . . . [a]ssign bands of
frequencies to the various classes of stations,” and so on. 47
U.S.C. § 303. These express delegations of authority contrast
sharply with the general policies set forth in section 230(b)
and section 1.

     The Commission next relies on National Ass’n of
Regulatory Utility Commissioners v. FCC, 880 F.2d 422
(D.C. Cir. 1989) (NARUC III), in which we considered a
challenge to its decision to preempt state regulation of “inside
wiring”—“telephone wires within a customer’s home or place
of business.” Id. at 425. The Commission had found inside
wiring to be beyond the scope of its Title II regulation and
simultaneously preempted state regulation of such wiring.
We held that the Commission had authority to issue the
preemption orders insofar as necessary “to encourage
competition in the provision, installation, and maintenance of
inside wiring.” Id. at 429–30. Although we did “agree with
the FCC that this policy [was] consistent with the goals of the
Act, and that it [had] the authority to implement this policy
with respect to interstate communications,” id. (citation
omitted), petitioners in that case had conceded that “inside
wiring installation and maintenance . . . are integral to
telephone communication,” id. at 427 (emphasis added)—a
fact critical to the Commission’s exercise of preemption
authority. In its orders, the Commission had emphasized that
“[o]ur prior preemption decisions have generally been limited
to activities that are closely related to the provision of services
and which affect the provision of interstate services.” In re
Detariffing the Installation and Maintenance of Inside Wiring,
1 F.C.C.R. 1190, 1192, ¶ 17 (1986). The term “services”
referred to “common carrier communication services” within
the scope of the Commission’s Title II jurisdiction. Id. “In
                               29
short,” the Commission explained, “the interstate telephone
network will not function as efficiently as possible without the
preemptive detariffing of inside wiring installation and
maintenance.” Id. (emphasis added). The Commission’s
preemption of state regulation of inside wiring was thus
ancillary to its regulation of interstate phone service, precisely
the kind of link to express delegated authority that is absent in
this case.

     The Commission cites several additional cases, but none
support its expansive view of ancillary authority. Two
decisions, like the many we have already discussed, upheld
the Commission’s exercise of ancillary authority because,
unlike here, the Commission had linked its action to a
statutory delegation of regulatory authority. See United
Video, Inc. v. FCC, 890 F.2d 1173, 1182–83 (D.C. Cir. 1989)
(upholding rules that, like those upheld in Southwestern
Cable, limited the ability of cable companies to import
programming into a broadcaster’s market); GTE Serv. Corp.
v. FCC, 474 F.2d 724, 729–30 (2d Cir. 1973) (upholding
Commission regulation of “data processing activities of
common carriers” based on the Commission’s concern “that
the statutory obligation of the communication common carrier
to provide adequate and reasonable services could be
adversely affected”). In another case, we rejected the
Commission’s argument, similar to the one it makes here, that
it could exercise ancillary authority on the basis of policy
alone. Motion Picture Ass’n of Am. v. FCC, 309 F.3d 796,
806–07 (D.C. Cir. 2002) (finding the Commission’s
“argument that [its] video description rules are obviously a
valid communications policy goal and in the public interest”
insufficient to justify its exercise of ancillary authority
(internal quotation marks omitted)). And in two decisions,
ancillary authority was either never addressed, Nat’l Broad.
Co. v. United States, 319 U.S. 190 (1943) (reviewing the
                              30
Commission’s exercise of its express licensing power over
broadcasting stations under section 303, 47 U.S.C. § 303), or
addressed only in passing, AT&T Corp. v. Iowa Utils. Bd.,
525 U.S. 366, 379–80 (1999) (mentioning the existence of the
Commission’s ancillary authority in the course of interpreting
another provision of the Act).

                              B.
     This brings us to the second category of statutory
provisions the Commission relies on to support its exercise of
ancillary authority. Unlike section 230(b) and section 1, each
of these provisions could at least arguably be read to delegate
regulatory authority to the Commission.

       We begin with section 706 of the Telecommunications
Act of 1996, which provides that “[t]he Commission . . . shall
encourage the deployment on a reasonable and timely basis of
advanced telecommunications capability to all Americans . . .
by utilizing . . . price cap regulation, regulatory forbearance,
measures that promote competition in the local
telecommunications market, or other regulating methods that
remove barriers to infrastructure investment.” 47 U.S.C.
§ 1302(a). As the Commission points out, section 706 does
contain a direct mandate—the Commission “shall encourage
. . . .”  In an earlier, still-binding order, however, the
Commission ruled that section 706 “does not constitute an
independent grant of authority.” In re Deployment of
Wireline Servs. Offering Advanced Telecomms. Capability, 13
F.C.C.R. 24,012, 24,047, ¶ 77 (1998) (Wireline Deployment
Order). Instead, the Commission explained, section 706
“directs the Commission to use the authority granted in other
provisions . . . to encourage the deployment of advanced
services.” Id. at 24,045, ¶ 69.
                              31
     The Commission now insists that this language refers
only “to whether section 706(a) supported forbearance
authority,” Resp’t’s Br. 41, i.e., the Commission’s authority to
free regulated entities from their statutory obligations in
certain circumstances, see 47 U.S.C. § 160. According to the
Commission, it “was not opining more generally on the effect
of section 706 on ancillary authority.” Resp’t’s Br. 41. But
the order itself says otherwise: “[S]ection 706(a) does not
constitute an independent grant of forbearance authority or of
authority to employ other regulating methods.” Wireline
Deployment Order, 13 F.C.C.R. at 24,044, ¶ 69 (emphasis
added). Because the Commission has never questioned, let
alone overruled, that understanding of section 706, and
because agencies “may not . . . depart from a prior policy sub
silentio,” FCC v. Fox Television Stations, Inc., 129 S. Ct.
1800, 1811 (2009), the Commission remains bound by its
earlier conclusion that section 706 grants no regulatory
authority.

    Implying that this court has done what the Commission
has not, the Commission points to a recent decision in which
we wrote, “The general and generous phrasing of § 706
means that the FCC possesses significant, albeit not
unfettered, authority and discretion to settle on the best
regulatory or deregulatory approach to broadband.” Ad Hoc
Telecomms. Users Comm. v. FCC, 572 F.3d 903, 906–07
(D.C. Cir. 2009). In that case, however, we cited section 706
merely to support the Commission’s choice between
regulatory approaches clearly within its statutory authority
under other sections of the Act, and upheld the Commission’s
refusal to forbear from certain regulation of business
broadband lines as neither arbitrary nor capricious. Nowhere
did we question the Commission’s determination that section
706 does not delegate any regulatory authority.           The
Commission’s reliance on section 706 thus fails. As in the
                              32
case of section 230(b) and section 1, the Commission is
seeking to use its ancillary authority to pursue a stand-alone
policy objective, rather than to support its exercise of a
specifically delegated power.

     The Commission’s attempt to tether its assertion of
ancillary authority to section 256 of the Communications Act
suffers from the same flaw. Section 256 directs the
Commission to “establish procedures for . . . oversight of
coordinated network planning . . . for the effective and
efficient interconnection of public telecommunications
networks.” 47 U.S.C. § 256(b)(1). In language unmentioned
by the Commission, however, section 256 goes on to state that
“[n]othing in this section shall be construed as expanding . . .
any authority that the Commission” otherwise has under law,
id. § 256(c)—precisely what the Commission seeks to do
here.

     The Commission next cites section 257. Enacted as part
of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, that provision gave
the Commission fifteen months to “complete a proceeding for
the purpose of identifying and eliminating, by regulations
pursuant to its authority under this chapter (other than this
section), market entry barriers for entrepreneurs and other
small businesses in the provision and ownership of
telecommunications services and information services.” 47
U.S.C. § 257(a). Although the section 257 proceeding is now
complete, that provision also directs the Commission to report
to Congress every three years on any remaining barriers. See
In re § 257 Proceeding to Identify and Eliminate Mkt. Entry
Barriers for Small Bus., 12 F.C.C.R. 16,802 (1997)
(completing original proceeding); 47 U.S.C. § 257(c)
(requiring ongoing reports). We readily accept that certain
assertions of Commission authority could be “reasonably
ancillary” to the Commission’s statutory responsibility to
                               33
issue a report to Congress. For example, the Commission
might impose disclosure requirements on regulated entities in
order to gather data needed for such a report. But the
Commission’s attempt to dictate the operation of an otherwise
unregulated service based on nothing more than its obligation
to issue a report defies any plausible notion of “ancillariness.”
See Motion Picture Ass’n of Am., 309 F.3d at 801–02 (holding
that an order requiring that broadcasters incorporate “video
descriptions” into certain television programs fell outside the
Commission’s ancillary authority even though it had been
directed to produce a report on the subject).

     Next the Commission argues that its exercise of authority
over Comcast’s network management practices is ancillary to
its section 201 common carrier authority—though the section
201 argument the Commission sets forth in its brief is very
different from the one appearing in the Order. As indicated
above, section 201 provides that “[a]ll charges, practices,
classifications, and regulations for and in connection with
[common carrier] service shall be just and reasonable.” 47
U.S.C. § 201(b). In the Order, the Commission found that by
blocking certain traffic on Comcast’s Internet service, the
company had effectively shifted the burden of that traffic to
other service providers, some of which were operating their
Internet access services on a common carrier basis subject to
Title II. Order, 23 F.C.C.R. at 13,037–38, ¶ 17. By
marginally increasing the variable costs of those providers,
the Commission maintained, Comcast’s blocking of peer-to-
peer transmissions affected common carrier rates.            Id.
Whatever the merits of this position, the Commission has
forfeited it by failing to advance it here. See United States ex
rel. Totten v. Bombardier Corp., 380 F.3d 488, 497 (D.C. Cir.
2004) (“Ordinarily, arguments that parties do not make on
appeal are deemed to have been waived.”).
                              34
     Instead, the Commission now argues that voice over
Internet Protocol (VoIP) services—in essence, telephone
services using Internet technology—affect the prices and
practices of traditional telephony common carriers subject to
section 201 regulation. According to the Commission, some
VoIP services were disrupted by Comcast’s network
management practices. We have no need to examine this
claim, however, for the Commission must defend its action on
the same grounds advanced in the Order. SEC v. Chenery
Corp., 318 U.S. 80, 87–88 (1943).

     The same problem undercuts the Commission’s effort to
link its regulation of Comcast’s network management
practices to its Title III authority over broadcasting. The
Commission contends that Internet video “has the potential to
affect the broadcast industry” by influencing “local
origination of programming, diversity of viewpoints, and the
desirability of providing service in certain markets.” Resp’t’s
Br. 43. But the Commission cites no source for this argument
in the Order, nor can we find one.

     Finally, the Commission argues that the Order is
ancillary to its section 623 authority over cable rates. 47
U.S.C. § 543. Although the Order never mentions section
623, and although, as far as we can tell, no commenter
suggested section 623 as a basis for the Commission’s
exercise of ancillary authority, the Commission argues that its
reliance on this provision is implicit in its section 1 finding.
That finding included the following explanation:

    [E]xercising jurisdiction over the complaint would
    promote [section 1’s] goal of achieving “reasonable
    charges.” For example, if cable companies such as
    Comcast are barred from inhibiting consumer access
    to high-definition on-line video content, then, as
                              35
    discussed above, consumers with cable modem
    service will have available a source of video
    programming (much of it free) that could rapidly
    become an alternative to cable television. The
    competition provided by this alternative should result
    in downward pressure on cable television prices,
    which have increased rapidly in recent years.

Order, 23 F.C.C.R. at 13,037, ¶ 16. Laying the foundation for
this theory earlier in the Order, the Commission found that
“video distribution poses a particular competitive threat to
Comcast’s video-on-demand (‘VOD’) service. VOD operates
much like online video, where Internet users can select and
download or stream any available program without a schedule
and watch it any time . . . .” Id. at 13,030, ¶ 5 (internal
quotation marks and alteration omitted).

     The Commission’s argument that we should read its
invocation of section 1 as a reference to its section 623
authority over cable rates fails because, unlike its Title II
authority over common carrier rates, its section 623 authority
is sharply limited. Indeed, section 623 expressly prohibits the
Commission from regulating rates for “video programming
offered on a . . . per program basis,” i.e., video-on-demand
service.     47 U.S.C. § 543(l)(2), (a)(1). Although the
Commission once enjoyed broader authority over cable rates,
see id. § 543(c)(4), its current authority is limited to setting
standards for and overseeing local regulation of rates for
“basic tier” service on certain cable systems. See id. § 543(b).
In the Order, the Commission does not assert ancillary
authority based on this narrow grant of regulatory power.
Instead, the Order rests on the premise that section 1 gives the
Commission ancillary authority to ensure reasonable rates for
all communication services, including those, like video-on-
demand, over which it has no express regulatory authority.
                              36
As explained above, Southwestern Cable, Midwest Video I,
Midwest Video II, and NARUC II bar this expansive theory of
ancillary authority.

                              V.
     It is true that “Congress gave the [Commission] broad
and adaptable jurisdiction so that it can keep pace with rapidly
evolving communications technologies.” Resp’t’s Br. 19. It
is also true that “[t]he Internet is such a technology,” id.,
indeed, “arguably the most important innovation in
communications in a generation,” id. at 30.                 Yet
notwithstanding the “difficult regulatory problem of rapid
technological change” posed by the communications industry,
“the allowance of wide latitude in the exercise of delegated
powers is not the equivalent of untrammeled freedom to
regulate activities over which the statute fails to confer . . .
Commission authority.” NARUC II, 533 F.2d at 618 (internal
quotation marks and footnote omitted).            Because the
Commission has failed to tie its assertion of ancillary
authority over Comcast’s Internet service to any “statutorily
mandated responsibility,” Am. Library, 406 F.3d at 692, we
grant the petition for review and vacate the Order.

                                                    So ordered.
