          United States Court of Appeals
                       For the First Circuit


Nos. 25-1212
     25-1213


        NEW ENGLAND FISHERMEN'S STEWARDSHIP ASSOCIATION,

                Plaintiff, Appellant/Cross-Appellee,

                            JERRY LEEMAN,

                             Plaintiff,

                                 v.

    HOWARD LUTNICK, in the capacity of Secretary of Commerce;
    NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE; EMILY MENASHES, in the
   capacity of Acting Assistant Administrator for Fisheries at
 NMFS; SAMUEL D. RAUCH, III, in the capacity of Deputy Assistant
         Administrator for Regulatory Programs at NMFS,

               Defendants, Appellees/Cross-Appellants.


         APPEALS FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                   FOR THE DISTRICT OF MAINE

       [Hon. John A. Woodcock, Jr., U.S. District Judge]


                               Before

                     Aframe, Lynch, and Dunlap,
                          Circuit Judges.


     John M. Gore, with whom Donald F. McGahn, II, John Henry
Thompson, Louis J. Capozzi, III, Julia Kazam, and Jones Day were
on brief, for appellant New England Fishermen's Stewardship
Association.
     Daniel Halainen, Attorney, U.S. Department of Justice,
Environment and Natural Resources Division, with whom Adam R.F.
Gustafson, Acting Assistant Attorney General, and            Thekla
Hansen-Young, Attorney, U.S. Department of Justice, Environment
and Natural Resources Division, were on brief, for appellees Howard
Lutnick, National Marine Fisheries Service, Emily Menashes, and
Samuel D. Rauch, III.

     J. Timothy Hobbs and K&L Gates LLP on brief for Seafood
Harvesters of America, amicus curiae.


                          April 30, 2026
            LYNCH, Circuit Judge.             This appeal stems from a dispute

between    the     New    England     Fishermen's      Stewardship     Association

("Association"), the Secretary of Commerce ("Secretary"), and the

National Marine Fisheries Service ("NMFS") over the Framework

Adjustment    65      Final    Rule   and    implementing    regulations,    which

affected the Association's members by reducing catch limits for

several species in the Northeast Multispecies Fishery Management

Plan. The Association here argues that the Framework Adjustment 65

Final Rule and implementing regulations must be invalidated under

the Appointments Clause of the U.S. Constitution because of the

involvement      of      the   advisory     New    England   Fishery   Management

Council.   We disagree and, on de novo review, hold the Association

is not entitled to relief.

                                            I.

            We summarize the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation

and Management Act's ("Act"), 16 U.S.C. § 1801 et seq., fishery

management    scheme.          We   then    describe   the   undisputed    factual

background which is relevant to the Association's request for

injunctive and declaratory relief as to Framework Adjustment 65.

 A. The Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act

            The Act, the provisions of which govern this dispute,

states thirteen Congressional findings at 16 U.S.C. § 1801(a) that

explain its creation of a "national program for the conservation




                                           - 3 -
and management of the fishery1 resources of the United States,"

which Congress found "[wa]s necessary to prevent overfishing, to

rebuild overfished stocks, to insure conservation, to facilitate

long-term protection of essential fish habitats, and to realize

the full potential of the Nation's fishery resources."                  16 U.S.C.

§ 1801(a)(6).       Congress further found that while fisheries faced

threats    of     "increased   fishing     pressure,      . . . inadequacy    of

fishery     resource     conservation      and    management     practices   and

controls,       [and] . . . habitat         losses,"      id.     § 1801(a)(2),

nonetheless fisheries are "finite but renewable" resources which

"can be conserved and maintained so as to provide optimum yields

on a continuing basis," "[i]f placed under sound management before

overfishing has caused irreversible effects," id. § 1801(a)(5).

            At § 1801(b), Congress next stated its seven purposes in

passing the Act.        One of these purposes explained the structure of

the fishery management program.            Congress sought to "enable the

States,     the     fishing    industry,       consumer    and    environmental

organizations, and other interested persons to participate in, and

advise    on,     the   establishment    and     administration    of   [fishery

management] plans [("FMPs")]" and to "take into account the social

and economic needs of the States."             Id. § 1801(b)(5).     To achieve



     1  Fisheries are defined in relevant part as "stocks of fish
which can be treated as a unit for purposes of conservation and
management." 16 U.S.C. § 1802(13)(A).


                                    - 4 -
these purposes, the Act "establish[ed] Regional Fishery Management

Councils"    and    gave    them      a    structured      role   of    "prepar[ing],

monitoring, and revisi[ng] [FMPs]."                  Id.

            An     FMP   sets    out       "the    conservation     and    management

measures . . . necessary and appropriate for the conservation and

management of [a given] fishery, to prevent overfishing and rebuild

overfished   stocks,       and   to       protect,    restore,    and     promote   the

long-term    health        and     stability         of    the    fishery."         Id.

§ 1853(a)(1)(A).         Congress mandated that each FMP be "consistent

with the [ten] national standards for fishery conservation and

management." Id. § 1851(a). These national standards are "broadly

worded" and "can be in tension with one another."                          Lovgren v.

Locke, 701 F.3d 5, 32 (1st Cir. 2012).                     The national standards

require, for example, that the "[c]onservation and management

measures" in an FMP "shall prevent overfishing while achieving, on

a continuing basis, the optimum yield from each fishery for the

United States fishing industry," 16 U.S.C. § 1851(a)(1), while

also requiring FMPs to "take into account the importance of fishery

resources to fishing communities                   . . . [and] minimize adverse

economic impacts on such communities," id. § 1851(a)(8).

            This structure furthers the seven policy objectives of

the Act set out in § 1801(c), including the objective:

            to   assure   that   the   national   fishery
            conservation and management program utilizes,
            and is based upon, the best scientific


                                           - 5 -
              information available;     involves, and is
              responsive to the needs of, interested and
              affected States and citizens; considers
              efficiency; draws upon Federal, State, and
              academic   capabilities    in   carrying   out
              research, administration, management, and
              enforcement; considers the effects of fishing
              on immature fish and encourages development of
              practical measures that minimize bycatch and
              avoid unnecessary waste of fish; and is
              workable and effective[.]

Id. § 1801(c)(3).

              The Act mandates that the Secretary, who is responsible

for    the    Act's   fishery   management   scheme,   "establish    advisory

guidelines (which shall not have the force and effect of law),

based on the national standards, to assist in the development of

fishery management plans."          Id. § 1851(b).      The Secretary has

delegated his authorities under the Act to the Under Secretary for

Oceans and Atmosphere at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric

Administration ("NOAA"), who has in turn delegated authority to

NOAA's Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, the official that

oversees NMFS ("NMFS Director").          NMFS administers the Act under

this delegation.        See Loper Bright Enters. v. Raimondo, 603 U.S.

369,    380    (2024)   ("The   [NMFS]   administers   the   [Act]   under   a

delegation from the Secretary of Commerce.").

              There are eight Regional Fishery Management Councils

("Councils") under the Act, which advise the Secretary and his

designee, NMFS, on fishery management in the geographical area

"seaward" of each Council's constituent States and territories.


                                     - 6 -
Id. § 1852(a)(1)(A)-(H), (h).               The voting members of each Council

fall       into    three    categories,     reflecting         the   interests   of    the

affected States, the fisheries, and the federal government.2                           Id.

§ 1852(b)(1).            First, the "principal State official with marine

fishery       management        responsibility           and    expertise    in       each

constituent State" or his "designee" is a voting member of the

Council. Id. § 1852(b)(1)(A). This official serves on the Council

"so long as the official continues to hold such [a] position,"

which ensures that each constituent State government always has a

voting member on the Council.                Id.        Second, the NMFS "regional

director" for the relevant geographic area, who is a career Senior

Executive Service official, is a voting member on each Council.

Id.        § 1852(b)(1)(B).          Third,        the     Secretary      selects       an

Act-specified number of voting members from lists submitted by

constituent         State      governors.         Id.     § 1852(b)(2)(C).            Each

governor's list must have at least three names, id., and the

Secretary must select at least one individual from each State's

list, id. § 1852(a)(1)(A)-(H).                Individuals submitted on these

lists       must    be     "knowledgeable    regarding         the   conservation     and

management, or the commercial or recreational harvest, of the



       2The Act also sets out the nonvoting members of each
Council, which include regional representatives from the U.S. Fish
and Wildlife Service, the Coast Guard, and the Marine Fisheries
Commission, as well as a representative from the Department of
State. 16 U.S.C. § 1852(c)(1)(A)-(D).


                                          - 7 -
fishery    resources       of    the   geographical      area     concerned."       Id.

§ 1852(b)(2)(A).       Before submitting the three or more names to the

Secretary, the governor must also have "to the extent practicable,

first   consulted      with       representatives        of   the    commercial     and

recreational     fishing         interests    of   the    State      regarding    th[e]

[submitted] individuals."              Id. § 1852(b)(2)(C).          If the Secretary

determines that an individual does not meet these requirements,

the governor may submit a revised list or provide additional

explanation of an individual's qualifications.                      Id.

            Only     the    Secretary        is    vested     with    lawmaking     and

enforcement power under the Act.             The Secretary is authorized with

the "general responsibility to carry out any [FMP] or amendment

approved or prepared by him, in accordance with the provisions of

[the Act]."      Id. § 1855(d).           The FMPs do not have the power to

bind; only Secretary-promulgated regulations have any regulatory

or legally binding effect.                 Only the Secretary,            through   his

designee    NMFS,     is    authorized        to    promulgate       regulations    to

effectuate the FMPs.            Id. § 1854(a)(1), (b)(1).           The Act gives the

Councils a structured role in advising the Secretary on both FMPs

and regulations, and because the role of the Councils is different

as to each, we describe them separately.

            1.     The Process of Approving Non-Binding FMPs

            FMPs and amendments thereto may originate from either

the Council or the Secretary.            See id. § 1853(a). When any fishery


                                         - 8 -
in    a   Council's      geographic     area      "requires    conservation     and

management,"      that    Council     "prepare[s]      and    submit[s]    to   the

Secretary"    a   proposed     FMP,     as    well   as     proposed   "amendments

. . . that are necessary."          Id. § 1852(h)(1).         Once the Secretary

receives a Council's proposed FMP or proposed amendment to an FMP,

the Secretary must review it "to determine whether it is consistent

with the national standards, the other provisions of [the Act],

and any other applicable law."           Id. § 1854(a)(1)(A).

            In    conducting     this    review,      the     Act   requires    the

Secretary    to   seek     independent       input   from     specified   parties,

including some parties which the Council does not have a statutory

authority or obligation to consult.                The Secretary, but not the

Council, is required to "consult with the Secretary of State with

respect to foreign fishing," id. § 1854(a)(2)(B); foreign fishing

is defined as "fishing by a vessel other than a vessel of the

United States," id. § 1802(19).              Beyond that, the Secretary, but

not   the   Council,     is   required       to   consult    with   the   different

Secretary overseeing the Coast Guard about "enforcement at sea."

Id. § 1854(a)(2)(C).          The Secretary must also "publish in the

Federal Register a notice stating that the [Council-proposed] plan

or amendment is available" to solicit comments from the general

public, id. § 1854(a)(1)(B), and must "take into account the

information, views, and comments received from interested persons"




                                       - 9 -
when conducting his review of a Council-proposed plan or amendment.

Id. § 1854(a)(2)(A).

           "[W]ithin 30 days of the end of the comment period," the

Secretary must "approve, disapprove, or partially approve a plan

or   amendment"    with   "written   notice   to   the   Council."   Id.

§ 1854(a)(3).     In the case of disapproval or partial approval, the

Secretary's written notice must inform the Council of "(A) the

applicable law with which the plan or amendment is inconsistent;

(B) the nature of such inconsistencies; and (C) recommendations

concerning the actions that could be taken by the Council to

conform such plan or amendment to the requirements of applicable

law."   Id.   After receiving the notice, "the Council may submit a

revised plan or amendment to the Secretary for review."              Id.

§ 1854(a)(4).     The Act does not limit the number of times the

Secretary can send back a proposed FMP or amendment to the Council.

Should "the Secretary . . . not notify a Council within 30 days of

the end of the comment period" of the decision, "then such plan or

amendment shall take effect as if approved."         Id. § 1854(a)(3).

           The Secretary is also authorized to originate FMPs and

amendments in several circumstances where the Council is not so

authorized.   If the Council does not develop and submit a plan in

"a reasonable period of time," or if the Secretary disapproves or

partially approves of a plan and the Council fails to appropriately

revise it, then the Secretary may prepare the FMP or "any necessary


                                 - 10 -
amendment to such a plan."          Id. § 1854(c)(1)(A)-(B).         Here too,

the Act requires the Secretary, but not the Council, to seek input

from    specified    parties.      The   Secretary   must    "conduct    public

hearings" on the FMP that he prepared, id. § 1854(c)(2)(A), as

well as "consult with the Secretary of State with respect to

foreign    fishing    and   with   the     . . . Coast    Guard     [Secretary]

. . . with respect to enforcement at sea," id. § 1854(c)(2)(B).

It is true the Secretary must also solicit "consideration and

comment" from the relevant Council.          Id. § 1854(c)(4)(A).       But the

Act does not require the Secretary to accept any Council-proposed

revisions under these circumstances.           See id. § 1854(c)(5).        The

Act also mandates the Secretary "publish in the Federal Register

a notice stating that the [Secretary-proposed] plan or amendment

is     available,"   id.    § 1854(c)(4)(B),       and   mandates    that   the

Secretary take into account "any views, information, or comments

submitted" in the notice and comment period, id. § 1854(c)(5).

 2.     The Process of Promulgating Regulations Through Rulemaking
                   to Implement FMPs and Amendments

            As FMPs themselves have no legally binding effect on

parties, the text of the Act defines the structured processes for

the Secretary, acting through his designee NMFS, to exercise his

exclusive    authority      to   bind    parties   through   rulemaking     and




                                    - 11 -
promulgating implementing regulations.3            The Councils submit to

the Secretary "proposed regulations" which they "deem[] necessary"

"simultaneously"      with    proposed    FMPs    or     amendments.       Id.

§ 1853(c)(1).    The Councils may also propose "modifications to

regulations implementing a[n] [FMP] or plan amendment" after FMP

or amendment approval.        Id. § 1853(c)(2).        The Secretary reviews

these submissions to "determine whether they are consistent with

the [FMP], plan amendment, [the Act] and other applicable law."

Id.   § 1854(b)(1).      If    the   Secretary    concludes    the    proposed

regulations are inconsistent with any of these four references,

the Secretary notifies the Council and "provide[s] recommendations

on revisions," after which the Council may submit revised proposed

regulations     for    reevaluation       by     the     Secretary.        Id.

§ 1854(b)(1)(B), (2).        The Act does not limit the number of times

the Secretary may return proposed regulations to the Council.

           If the Secretary finds the proposed regulations meet

these requirements, the Act lays out the process for the Secretary


      3 Rulemaking under the Act also must be done in compliance
with the Regulatory Flexibility Act ("RFA"), 5 U.S.C. § 601 et
seq., which requires agencies to consider the impact of federal
regulations   on   small  businesses   by   preparing   regulatory
flexibility analyses during rulemaking.       See id. §§ 603(a),
604(a); 16 U.S.C. §§ 1854(b)-(c), 1855(e); Associated Fisheries of
Me., Inc. v. Daley, 127 F.3d 104, 111 (1st Cir. 1997); see also
Framework Adjustment 65 to the Northeast Multispecies Fishery
Management Plan, 88 Fed. Reg. 56527, 56541–42 (Aug. 18, 2023)
(including the Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis in the
Framework Adjustment 65 Final Rule, as required by the RFA, 5
U.S.C. § 604).


                                     - 12 -
to promulgate regulations.             The Secretary, acting through his

designee NMFS, publishes a proposed rule in the Federal Register

which   contains    the    proposed      regulations        he    has    found   to   be

consistent.   Id. § 1854(b)(1)(A).            After the close of a notice and

comment period, the Secretary "shall promulgate final regulations

within 30 days" in a final rule.                    Id. § 1854(b)(3).            If the

Secretary    chooses      to   "mak[e]      any   revisions       to    the    proposed

regulations," he must "consult with the Council before[hand]."

Id.     Nothing in the Act requires the Secretary to revise the

regulations in light of the Council's comments.                        Id.    The final

rule that the Secretary publishes in the Federal Register must

contain "an explanation of any differences between the proposed

and final regulations."         Id.

            Four    different    provisions         of    the    Act    authorize     the

Secretary to promulgate regulations which have not been proposed

to him by a Council.       First, when the Secretary prepares an FMP or

amendment,    the     Secretary        is    also        authorized      to    "propose

regulations in the Federal Register" for a notice and comment

period "to implement [that] plan or amendment," thus seeking input

from the public.       Id. § 1854(c)(6).             In this circumstance, the

Secretary must also "submit[]" his proposed "regulations . . . to

the [relevant] Council."         Id.    Second, the Act vests the Secretary

with general authority to "promulgate such regulations . . . as

may be necessary to discharge" his "responsibility to carry out


                                       - 13 -
any [FMP] or amendment approved or prepared by him" "or to carry

out any other provision of [the Act]."             Id. § 1855(d).       Third, the

Secretary is also authorized to "promulgate emergency regulations

or interim measures" when "necessary to address [an] emergency or

overfishing, without regard to whether a[n] [FMP] exists for such

fishery."    Id. § 1855(c)(1).        Finally, the Secretary is authorized

to "promulgate such regulations as may be necessary to carry out"

the establishment of a "central registry system" for permits to

fishery limited access systems.           Id. § 1855(h)(2).

  B. NMFS's Promulgation, as the Secretary's Designee, of the
 Framework Adjustment 65 Final Rule and Implementing Regulations

             The Association's appeal seeks relief from Framework

Adjustment     65    to   the    Northeast       Multispecies     FMP    and     the

corresponding Final Rule and implementing regulations.                   Framework

adjustment    is    "an   expedited    regulatory      process"    set    by    NMFS

regulation, 50 C.F.R. § 648.90, that "allow[s] NMFS and [the

Council] to respond more quickly and efficiently to fluctuations

in the groundfish population."            Massachusetts v. Pritzker, 10 F.

Supp.   3d   208,    212-13     (D.   Mass.    2014)   (citing    Gulf     of    Me.

Fisherman's All. v. Daley, 292 F.3d 84, 86 (1st Cir. 2002)).                   Under

this process, the New England Council, which is the Council with

authority over the fisheries seaward of Maine, New Hampshire,

Massachusetts,       Rhode      Island,    and     Connecticut,     16     U.S.C.

§ 1852(a)(1)(A), may recommend to NMFS specifications necessary to



                                      - 14 -
achieve     Northeast      Multispecies        FMP     objectives,      such   as

area-specific annual catch limits, area management boundaries, and

gear restrictions, which NMFS may choose to promulgate through

rulemaking.       See 50 C.F.R. § 648.90(a)(2)(ii), (3)(i).4

            The     New   England    Council     developed    and    recommended

Framework Adjustment 65 as part of its annual Framework Adjustment

process.    Framework Adjustment 65 included five proposed measures:

(1) proposed revisions to the rebuilding plan for Gulf of Maine

cod stock, as NMFS had informed the Council in 2021 that the stock

had made inadequate rebuilding progress under the previous plan

and gave a deadline of August 2023 for revisions; (2) proposed

shared     U.S./Canada      quotas     for     three    stocks;     (3) proposed

specifications,       including      catch   limits,    for   sixteen    stocks;

(4) proposed removal of management uncertainty buffers for two

stocks; and (5) proposed temporary modifications to accountability

measures for one stock.              The Council preliminarily submitted

Framework Adjustment 65 to the NMFS on February 22, 2023.

            NMFS, acting under its delegated authority from the

Secretary, responded on April 5, 2023, with a letter that outlined

NMFS's concerns with the preliminary submission.               In response, on


     4  In some circumstances, the Framework Adjustment process
permits NMFS to forgo a notice and comment period when promulgating
a final rule, see, e.g., 50 C.F.R. § 648.90(a)(2)(vii), (c)(4)(i),
but those circumstances are not present here, where NMFS went
through a notice and comment period before promulgating the
Framework Adjustment 65 Final Rule and implementing regulations.


                                      - 15 -
April 18,    2023,     the    New    England       Council    submitted      a    revised

Framework    Adjustment        65    and    implementing       regulations,         which

"incorporate[d] all the changes requested" and "addressed the

concerns raised [by NMFS] with the Council's proposal for the

Georges Bank cod acceptable biological catches (ABCs) for fishing

years 2023 and 2024 including the rationale and impacts analysis."

            NMFS      staff        then    reviewed     the     revised      Framework

Adjustment      65     and     proposed        implementing         regulations       for

consistency with the FMP and other applicable law, pursuant to

§ 1854(b)(1), and found it consistent.                 On May 11, 2023, several

weeks   after        the   Council's        submission,       the     NMFS       Regional

Administrator        for     the     Greater       Atlantic     Region       ("Regional

Administrator"), who is also a member of the New England Council,

sent a Decision Memorandum to the NMFS Director recommending she

approve publication of the Proposed Rule, which "propose[d] all

Framework [Adjustment] 65 measures as recommended by the New

England" Council.          The memo stated that the Proposed Rule also

sought that "[a]dditional [m]easures [n]ot [p]art of Framework

[Adjustment] 65," namely regulatory corrections to text in 50

C.F.R. Part 648, be promulgated under the Secretary's § 1855(d)

general regulatory authority, which were combined with Framework

Adjustment 65 for rulemaking efficiency.

            On May 17, 2023, the NMFS Director approved the Proposed

Rule for publication in the Federal Register, and it was published


                                          - 16 -
on May 31, 2023, for notice and comment.                 88 Fed. Reg. 34810

(May 31,      2023).      The   Proposed   Rule   received     three      comments,

including one from the Association, which raised essentially the

same       Appointments   Clause   arguments      it   has    pursued     in   this

litigation.5      NMFS staff reviewed the comments and concluded in a

June 30,      2023,    Issues   Advisory   Memorandum        from   the   Regional

Administrator to the NMFS Director that "[n]one of the comments

compel . . . disapprov[al] [of] any Council-recommended measure."

On July 17, 2023, the Regional Administrator sent a Decision

Memorandum to the NMFS Director recommending approval of the Final

Rule.       On August 3, 2023, the NMFS Director approved the Final

Rule, which was published in the Federal Register on August 18,

2023.       See Framework Adjustment 65 to the Northeast Multispecies

Fishery Management Plan, 88 Fed. Reg. 56527 (Aug. 18, 2023) ("Final

Rule").




       5The Association submitted a public comment to the Framework
Adjustment 65 Proposed Rule that made essentially the same
Appointments Clause argument as in this suit.       See Final Rule
at 56540.     In response, NMFS stated that the Association
"misunderstands the function and authority of the Council, which
. . . acts as an advisory body only: authority to issue Federal
regulations to implement fishery management measures that impact
fishermen is vested solely in the Secretary."       Id.   NMFS also
stated that "Federal courts have held that fishery management
councils are not considered Federal agencies for purposes of the
Administrative Procedure Act" and that council members "neither
occupy continuing positions nor exercise significant authority."
Id.


                                     - 17 -
            The Final Rule and implementing regulations,6 however,

were not the same as the Proposed Rule; NMFS had made three

changes.      Final Rule at 56540–41.             First, the Final Rule as

promulgated by NMFS used § 1855(c)(2)(B) emergency power to set a

different   Gulf    of   Maine   haddock       acceptable    biological     catch

("ABC") for fishing year 2023.           Id. at 56529, 56541.        Under this

emergency     power,     the   Secretary        "may    promulgate    emergency

regulations    [effective      for    180    days]     . . . to   address    [an]

emergency or overfishing if the Council, by less than a unanimous

vote,    requests      the   taking    of      such    action."      16   U.S.C.

§ 1855(c)(2)(B), (3)(B). On May 2, 2023, the Council had requested

by non-unanimous vote that NMFS promulgate an emergency regulation

to increase the Gulf of Maine haddock ABC from the level proposed

in Framework Adjustment 65, which was 1,936 metric tons ("mt"), to

2,281 mt.     Final Rule at 56529.          NMFS conducted its own analysis

and determined the ABC should be set at 2,515 mt, or higher than

the Council's recommendation, for the 180-day period authorized by

the Secretary's emergency authority.            Id.    The Final Rule replaced

the Gulf of Maine haddock ABC to the level determined by NMFS's



     6  Some measures in the Framework Adjustment 65 Final Rule
were implemented through changes to regulations at 50 C.F.R.
Part 648, such as the removal of a regulatory provision as part of
revising the Gulf of Maine cod rebuilding plan, while most other
measures in the Framework Adjustment 65 Final Rule, such as the
annual catch limits for sixteen stocks, were not copied into the
Code of Federal Regulations.


                                      - 18 -
analysis.7 Id. at 56541. Second, the Final Rule included potential

sector contributions and annual catch entitlements at the sector

level that were not available at the time of the Proposed Rule.

Id. at 56540-41.      Third, the Final Rule adjusted common pool trip

limits for several fish stocks from the limits in the Proposed

Rule.    Id. at 56541.

                                      II.

            The    Association,     appellant/cross-appellee,      is    "an

alliance    of    commercial     fishermen"   whose   membership   includes

fishermen   who    have   been   economically   injured   by   catch    limit

reductions in the Final Rule.          The Association sued NMFS, NMFS

officials, and the Secretary (collectively, "the Secretary") in

the U.S. District Court for the District of Maine on September 8,

2023, asking the court to "vacate, enjoin, and declare unlawful

Framework Adjustment 65,8 the Framework Adjustment Final Rule, and



     7  The Final Rule stated that it "technically approve[d] the
ABC that was proposed in Framework 65, and it replace[d] the
1,936-mt [Gulf of Maine] haddock ABC in Framework 65 with an ABC
of 2,515 mt for 180 days through the emergency authority provided
at [16 U.S.C. § 1855(c)]." Final Rule at 56529. NMFS extended
the emergency action after the first 180 days so that the Gulf of
Maine haddock ABC remained consistent throughout fishing year
2023. See Temporary Rule to Extend Gulf of Maine Haddock Emergency
Action for the Northeast Multispecies Fishery Management Plan, 89
Fed. Reg. 1036 (Jan. 9, 2024).
     8  We lack jurisdiction over claims for relief from the
Framework Adjustment itself but have jurisdiction over the Final
Rule and implementing regulations, see 16 U.S.C. § 1855(f), which
are the real subject of the suit.


                                    - 19 -
accompanying regulations."            The Association's primary argument was

that the actions of the New England Council leading to Framework

Adjustment 65 were so significant in framing the content of the

Adjustment that the Council essentially wrote the Adjustment for

the Secretary and that made the Council members "Officers of the

United States."      Because the Council members were not presidential

appointees or appointed by heads of Departments or courts of law,

the Association alleged, this violated the Appointments Clause of

the U.S. Constitution.            The Association also argued that other

statutory provisions, not involved in any aspect of the enactment

of   the   Final    Rule   or    implementing     regulations,        violated   the

Appointments Clause.         The appropriate remedy for the violation, it

further alleged, was the invalidation of Framework Adjustment 65,

the Final Rule, and all accompanying implementing regulations

promulgated by the Secretary's designee, NMFS.

            The parties filed cross-motions for summary judgment.

In its opinion, New England Fishermen's Stewardship Association v.

Raimondo, 761 F. Supp. 3d 141 (D. Me. 2024), the district court

found that the Association had standing due to the injury its

members suffered from the Framework Adjustment 65 Final Rule's

reduced catch limits.            Id. at 198-201.        The amended complaint

sought     to    permanently      enjoin    the     Secretary    from    enforcing

Framework       Adjustment      65,   its   Final     Rule,     and   accompanying

regulations against the Association's members, but did not seek


                                       - 20 -
injunctive relief against any other action by the Secretary.                     On

the merits of the Association's primary argument, the district

court    held   that   the     powers     discussed   above   did       not   bestow

significant     authority      on   the    Council    members,     as   "only   the

Secretary holds the power to legally effectuate an FMP through

implementing regulations," while the Councils serve an advisory

"policy development role."           Id. at 210.        Although the district

court agreed with the Association's additional argument that other

provisions of the Act restricting NMFS's ability to take certain

actions without prior Council approval, which were not involved in

Framework Adjustment 65, were unconstitutional, it nonetheless

concluded that those infirmities did not entitle the Association

to its requested injunctive and declaratory relief. Id. at 212-13.

The district court severed those provisions of the Act.                   Id.    The

Association     argues   the    district     court    erred   in    severing    the

provisions.9

            For the reasons stated below, we hold that the Council

was merely acting as an advisor with regard to the Framework

Adjustment 65 Final Rule and implementing regulations and, as such,




     9  The Seafood Harvesters of America, as amicus curiae in
support of the Secretary and affirmance, disagrees with the
Association, identifies itself as "the leading national commercial
fishing organization in the United States" whose interests are
"directly threaten[ed]" by appellant's claims, and argues there is
no Appointments Clause violation.


                                     - 21 -
was not the source of the injury to the Association's members.

Accordingly, there is no basis for the award of any remedy.

                                 III.

             This court reviews a district court's grant of summary

judgment de novo.     Sarkisian v. Austin Preparatory Sch., 85 F.4th

670, 675 (1st Cir. 2023).    We also review the constitutional issue

de novo.10    United States v. Diggins, 36 F.4th 302, 306 (1st Cir.

2022).

             The Appointments Clause of the U.S. Constitution states

that the President:

             shall nominate, and by and with the Advice and
             Consent   of   the   Senate,   shall   appoint
             Ambassadors, other public Ministers and
             Consuls, Judges of the supreme Court, and all
             other Officers of the United States, whose
             Appointments are not herein otherwise provided
             for, and which shall be established by Law:
             but the Congress may by Law vest the
             Appointment of such inferior Officers, as they
             think proper, in the President alone, in the
             Courts of Law, or in the Heads of Departments.

U.S. Const. art. II, § 2, cl. 2.        If the Council members are not

officers of the United States, "the Appointments Clause cares not

a whit about who named them."       Lucia v. SEC, 585 U.S. 237, 245




     10 The more usual challenge to such regulations under the Act
is the assertion that a regulation is unnecessary to achieve the
Secretary's stated goals, inconsistent with the national standards
at 16 U.S.C. § 1851, or inconsistent with other provisions of the
Act. See, e.g., Lovgren v. Locke, 701 F.3d 5, 13 (1st Cir. 2012);
Daley, 127 F.3d at 110.


                                - 22 -
(2018)    (citing     United    States       v.     Germaine,    99    U.S.     508,   510

(1878)).11

             On the arguments made to us, we hold that the Councils

are purely advisory bodies which have a defined, structured role

in the Secretary's decision-making process, which "enable[s] the

States,      the     fishing    industry,           consumer     and     environmental

organizations, and other interested persons to participate in, and

advise on" fishery management decisions, 16 U.S.C. § 1801(b)(5)

(emphases added).       Indeed, the Act may be viewed as an exercise in

federalism,        ensuring    that    the     voices    of     States    and    private

interests      are      heard         in     areas      of      exclusive        federal

regulation12 -- here, the fisheries in the waters of the United




     11 Germaine held that civil surgeons who were appointed by
the federal Commissioner of Pensions to make periodic examinations
of pensioners and who were paid for each examination were not
officers of the United States. 99 U.S. at 511-12; see also Fin.
Oversight & Mgmt. Bd. for P.R. v. Aurelius Inv., LLC, 590 U.S.
448, 479-82 (2020) (Thomas, J., concurring) (citing Germaine and
concurring in the judgment that members of the Financial Oversight
and Management Board for Puerto Rico are not "Officers of the
United States"); Auffmordt v. Hedden, 137 U.S. 310, 326-27 (1890)
(citing Germaine and holding that a "merchant appraiser" whose
"position is without tenure, duration, continuing emolument, or
continuous duties" is not an officer of the United States under
the Appointments Clause).
     12 States have jurisdiction to regulate fishing in the three
geographical miles from their coastlines, while the Act applies to
the "exclusive economic zone" of the United States, which extends
from the edge of coastal State waters to 200 nautical miles
seaward. See 48 Fed. Reg. 10605 (Mar. 10, 1983); 43 U.S.C. § 1312;
16 U.S.C. § 1856(a)(1); see also United States v. Maine, 420 U.S.
515, 517-19 (1975) (the United States has sovereign rights over


                                           - 23 -
States -- with     most   of   the    voting    Regional       Council    members

reflecting the interests of coastal States and commercial fishing

interests in different regional waters of the United States.                   Yet

the   Secretary    must   independently        decide     to    enact     fishery

management measures into binding federal regulations, and the

Council's only role is to advise the Secretary on those decisions.

Here, any injury suffered by the Association's members under the

Framework Adjustment 65 Final Rule and implementing regulations

flows not from the Council's advisory recommendations, but from

the Secretary's independent decision to promulgate the regulations

that bind the Association's members.13

           The    Association's      primary   argument    is    that    the   Act

grants the Councils "rule-developing power" to draft FMPs and

recommend regulations to the Secretary, and the New England Council

exercised that power to develop Framework Adjustment 65.                       We

disagree   with    the    Association's        characterization         that   the

Council's structured role is anything more than advisory.




the seabed lying more than three geographical miles seaward from
State coastlines).
      13The Secretary has on appeal abandoned its argument to the
district court that the Association lacked associational standing.
The Secretary has not continued to contest the Association's
standing to pursue its primary argument outlined below, but does
argue it lacks Article III "standing to challenge 16 U.S.C.
§§ 1854(c)(3) and (h) because these provisions are wholly
irrelevant   to   the   framework  adjustment   and   implementing
regulations at issue."


                                     - 24 -
              The FMPs and the final regulations differ in terms of

their effect in several ways, all relevant to their impact on

fishery participants like the Association's members.                    For one,

there   are    key,    legally    significant      differences   in   the   roles

assigned by Congress to the Councils and then the Secretary both

as to the FMPs and as to the final regulations.                     FMPs are not

binding on fishery participants like the Association's members,

are not legally enforceable, and do not carry legally enforceable

consequences for noncompliance.               As explained below, only the

Secretary has the rulemaking authority to promulgate regulations

with the effect of law.             See Anglers Conservation Network v.

Pritzker, 809 F.3d 664, 667 (D.C. Cir. 2016) ("[A]ll regional

Councils[] ha[ve] no authority to promulgate federal rules.").

The Act simply does not have any language giving that legal status

to FMPs and amendments.          As said in North Carolina Fisheries Ass'n

v. Gutierrez, 550 F.3d 16 (D.C. Cir. 2008), FMPs "do not themselves

have any regulatory effect -- implementing regulations must also

be enacted in order to effectuate them."             Id. at 17; accord Arnesen

v.   Lutnick,    170   F.4th     965,   971   (5th   Cir.   2026)   ("[FMPs]   or

amendments are not self-executing and require the Secretary to

issue accompanying regulations.").               And the Councils also have no

enforcement authority over violations of these regulations.                 It is




                                        - 25 -
the federal NOAA which oversees NMFS and brings civil enforcement

proceedings for violations of the promulgated regulations.14

             Once the Secretary has promulgated regulations, only

then does the Act create a cause of action, and even then, one

which     permits   limited   judicial   review   of   only   "[r]egulations

promulgated by the Secretary under [the Act]" and "actions that

are taken by the Secretary under regulations which implement a

fishery management plan."        16 U.S.C. § 1855(f)(1)–(2) (emphases

added); Goethel v. U.S. Dep't of Com., 854 F.3d 106, 113-14 (1st

Cir. 2017); Associated Fisheries of Me., Inc. v. Daley, 127 F.3d

104, 107 (1st Cir. 1997) (the Secretary's "promulgate[d] final

implementing regulations . . . are subject to judicial review").




     14 See, e.g., Yates v. United States, 574 U.S. 528, 533 (2015)
(deputized NMFS officer issued a citation to a fishing ship for
possession of undersized groupers in violation of federal fish
conservation regulations under the Act, "a civil offense
punishable by a fine or fishing license suspension" (citing 16
U.S.C. §§ 1857(1)(A), (G), 1858(a), (g))); Frontier Fishing Corp.
v. Pritzker, 770 F.3d 58, 60-61 (1st Cir. 2014) (upholding
imposition of fine and restriction of fishing days on fishing
company in NOAA enforcement proceeding for violating regulations
promulgated under the Act prohibiting trawling in restricted gear
area); In re High Pressure Fisheries, Inc., 2024 WL 1625879, at
*1-3 (NOAA Mar. 29, 2024) (enforcement action for violating 50
C.F.R.   § 648.14(i)(4)(i)(A),    the    regulation    implementing
individual fishing quota possession limits of Atlantic Sea
scallops, not for violating the Atlantic Sea Scallops FMP); In re
Robert C. Roberge, 2015 WL 6395683, at *1, 16 (NOAA Jul. 14, 2015)
(enforcement action for violating 50 C.F.R. § 648.14(k)(6)(i)(A),
the regulation prohibiting fishing with specified trawl gear, not
for violating the Northeast Multispecies FMP).


                                   - 26 -
              By contrast, Congress provided no provision allowing

judicial review of the earlier, advisory steps that the Council

takes.   Indeed, the Act permits "judicial review [only] to the

extent authorized by, and in accordance with [the Administrative

Procedure Act]," 16 U.S.C. § 1855(f), which in turn permits review

of "final agency action," 5 U.S.C. § 704.                   The Councils' actions

as to amendments of FMPs are not final agency actions, but are

just intermediate, advisory "step[s] toward final agency action."

Anglers Conservation Network, 809 F.3d at 670.                      The Act also

imposes a statute of limitations: authorized actions must be "filed

within   30    days    after    the    date   on    which   the   regulations   are

promulgated or the action is published in the Federal Register, as

applicable."      16 U.S.C. § 1855(f)(1).                Our court has held this

statute of limitations "cannot be sidestepped" through a claim

seeking "pre-enforcement review."               Goethel, 854 F.3d at 114.

              The Association's argument also overstates the role of

the   Councils    as    to     their   advice      and   recommendations   to   the

Secretary for final regulations.                   That role is significantly

narrower, by Congressional choice, than the Council's role in

developing the FMPs.         The Association's arguments make much of the

fact that "if the Secretary does not notify a Council within 30

days" of this judgment of the proposed FMP or amendment, it shall

"take effect as if approved" under § 1854(a)(3)(C).                  But Congress

chose not to permit Council-proposed regulations transmitted to


                                        - 27 -
the Secretary under § 1854(b)(1) to bind fishery participants

unless the Secretary takes the further steps needed to promulgate

regulations.         Thus, even if hypothetically a proposed FMP or

amendment took effect by virtue of Secretarial inaction under

§ 1854(a)(3)(C), it would have no binding legal effect.15

              Moreover,      the    final   regulations   promulgated   by   the

Secretary need not be consistent with any such FMP.                See Arnesen,

170   F.4th    at    977    ("The    Commercial   Fishers   [plaintiffs]     also

misinterpret        the    reach    of   Section 1854(b)(1)   to   require   the

regulation to be 'consistent with the fishery management plan.'

. . .      That provision only applies to the Secretary's review of



      15 Further, as the Secretary points out, the Executive Branch
has long agreed that the Councils' inability to promulgate
regulations makes their role purely advisory. See President Donald
J. Trump Statement on Signing the Modernizing Recreational
Fisheries Management Act of 2018, 2018 Daily Comp. Pres. Doc.
No. 00877 (Dec. 31, 2018) ("Keeping with past practice of the
executive branch, my Administration will treat the [FMPs]
promulgated by the Council as advisory only; the adoption of the
[FMPs] will be subject to the discretion of the Secretary of
Commerce as part of the regulatory process described in . . . the
[Act]."), available at 2018 WL 6839393; accord President George W.
Bush   Statement   on    Signing   the   Magnuson-Stevens   Fishery
Conservation and Management Reauthorization Act of 2006, 43 Weekly
Comp. Pres. Doc. 31-32 (Jan. 12, 2007), available at 2007 WL
892712; President William J. Clinton Statement on Signing the
Sustainable Fisheries Act of 1996, 2 Pub. Papers 1815 (Oct. 11,
1996), available at 1996 WL 787969.       New Council members are
trained that their roles are only advisory. See, e.g., Jessica
Coakley, New Council Member Training: Council Process and
Organization, NOAA, at 32 (Oct. 2024), https://perma.cc/YJ8K-TD25
(training new Council members that the Council's role is to
"consider[] and recommend[] action" to NMFS, not to "implement" or
"enforce" a recommendation).


                                         - 28 -
regulations proposed by the Council and does not speak to the

Secretary's      own     proposed       regulations."        (quoting       16   U.S.C.

§ 1854(b)(1))).        The Act does not impose substantive constraints

on   the   Secretary's        ability    to    modify      Council-proposed      draft

regulations before the Secretary promulgates final regulations.

As   the   Framework     Adjustment       65    Final      Rule    and   implementing

regulations demonstrate, the Secretary is authorized to and does

exercise his other regulation-promulgation powers to effectively

modify Council-proposed draft regulations.

              On the facts here, the Final Rule revised the ABC for

Gulf of Maine haddock, and to the level that NMFS determined, under

the Secretary's § 1855(c)(2)(B) authority.                        See Final Rule at

56529.     After Council-proposed regulations are published in the

Federal Register by the Secretary for a notice and comment period,

16   U.S.C.    § 1854(b)(1)(A),         the    Act   gives    the    Secretary      full

authority to revise the substance of those regulations before

"promulgat[ing] final regulations," subject only to the procedural

requirement that he "consult with the [relevant] Council before

making any revisions," id. § 1854(b)(3).                   Here, there were three

changes    between      the    Proposed       Rule   and     the    Final    Rule    and

implementing regulations, changes which the Council did not have

power to block.        Final Rule at 56540-41; see, e.g., Fishing Co. of

Alaska, Inc. v. Gutierrez, 510 F.3d 328, 333 (D.C. Cir. 2007) ("The

Council is free to submit comments on a proposed rule (as are


                                        - 29 -
others), but power to alter the rule before it becomes final rests

only with the Secretary.").          The Secretary's broad discretion to

revise regulations allows him to respond to public input from the

notice   and   comment     period,        which    very    well   may    highlight

unanticipated problems that change the Secretary's judgment as to

the appropriate binding regulations.                    We agree with the D.C.

Circuit's   characterization         of   the     Councils'   "post-transmittal

role" after proposing draft regulations to the Secretary "as

limited."    Fishing Co. of Alaska, 510 F.3d at 332.

            Even    at   the   FMP   stage,       the    Association's    argument

exaggerates the Council's role by downplaying the scope of the

Secretary's    authority       to    review       Council-proposed       FMPs   and

amendments.    The Act gives the Secretary a different and broader

role than the advisory role assigned to the Councils.                      The Act

instructs the Secretary to "review . . . the plan or amendment to

determine whether it is consistent with the national standards,

the other provisions of [the Act], and any other applicable law."

16 U.S.C. § 1854(a)(1)(A).            The Secretary is thus explicitly

required to do his own analysis as to whether the proposal is

compliant with the national standards set forth in § 1851.                       Id.

As   this   court    noted     in    Lovgren,       "[c]ompliance       with    the"

sometimes-conflicting "national standards requires balancing by

the agency and the exercise of discretion and judgment."                  701 F.3d




                                     - 30 -
at 32 (emphasis added).16         The text of the Act also does not

expressly    limit     the   Secretary's     authority   to     disapprove    a

Council's proposal only upon finding a conflict between that

proposal and other law.        So like two of our sister circuits, we

decline to read such a condition into the Act's text.             See Lofstad

v. Raimondo, 117 F.4th 493, 500 (3d Cir. 2024) (holding that "the

Secretary may disapprove a[n] [FMP] or amendment for any reason"

because the Act "does not expressly condition [the Secretary's

FMP] disapproval on a conflict with law"); Arnesen, 170 F.4th at

976 ("The Act does not 'expressly condition disapproval on a

conflict with law.' . . .        To find otherwise would permit reading

into the statute additional limitations on the Secretary, who is

broadly entrusted under the Act to carry out its purpose." (quoting

Lofstad, 117 F.4th at 500)).

            Additionally, the Act requires that in "undertaking the

review" of a Council-proposed FMP or amendment, the Secretary, but

not   the   Council,    must   consult    with   specified      other   federal

government    officials,       whose     perspectives    thus     inform     the



      16Among these competing considerations are how to "prevent
overfishing" while also achieving "the optimum yield . . . for the
[domestic] fishing industry," 16 U.S.C. § 1851(a)(1), and doing so
in "fair and equitable" ways which "promote conservation," id.
§ 1854(a)(4).    This broadly requires the exercise of the
Secretary's discretion and judgment, as Congress intended.     See
New York v. Raimondo, 84 F.4th 102, 107 (2d Cir. 2023). The Act
contains no text requiring the Secretary to defer to the Council
in the exercise of his judgment.


                                   - 31 -
Secretary's judgment as to whether to approve, disapprove, or

partially approve the Council's FMP or amendment proposal.                  See 16

U.S.C. § 1854(a)(2)(B)–(C).

              For     these    reasons,    and     because     we     reject   the

Association's reading of the Act, we conclude controlling Supreme

Court precedent requires us to hold that the advisory role that

the New England Council played in the Secretary's decision to

promulgate Framework Adjustment 65 Final Rule and implementing

regulations was not the source of the injuries alleged by the

Association's members.           Our conclusion follows from the Supreme

Court's most recent Appointments Clause cases as well as earlier

cases.

              In Kennedy v. Braidwood Management, Inc., 606 U.S. 748

(2025),      the    precise   Appointments    Clause   issue    was    admittedly

different: whether members of the Preventive Services Task Force

("Task Force") were "inferior" or "principal" officers.17                   Id. at

754.        The Court held that Task Force members were "inferior"

officers who were properly appointed by a principal officer, the

Secretary of Health and Human Services ("HHS"), so there was no

Appointments        Clause    violation.     Id.     The     Task   Force   there,

originally created in 1984 and codified in 1999, is an entity



       17The Association does not contest that the NMFS director,
the NOAA Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, is a duly appointed
inferior officer.


                                     - 32 -
within HHS, which "issues public recommendations about preventive

healthcare        services -- for          example,       cancer       and        diabetes

screenings."       Id. at 753-55.            The Affordable Care Act of 2010

("ACA") required health insurers across the country to cover the

services the Task Force recommended with an "A" or "B" grade at no

cost   to   the    insured,      making    the    scope    of    the       Task   Force's

responsibilities national.             Id. at 756-57.          The ACA directed the

Secretary of HHS to establish a period of not less than one year

between     the    Task    Force's     issuance     of    an    "A"    or     "B"    grade

recommendation of a service and when insurers must cover that

service without cost sharing.              Id. at 757.          During that period,

the Secretary of HHS can review that recommendation and block it

from taking effect.           Id.      The Court explained that Task Force

members     were    "nationally        recognized        experts      in    prevention,

evidence-based       medicine,       and   primary       care    . . .       includ[ing]

researchers, professors, and practicing physicians with experience

and expertise in public health and across a wide range of medical

specialties."       Id. at 755 (internal quotation marks and citation

omitted).

             Most importantly for our analysis, the Court stated that

"[b]efore    2010,"       when   the   ACA    was   enacted,       "members         of   the

Preventive Services Task Force were not officers at all," because

"[t]he Task Force was an advisory body" where "members made only

non-binding recommendations."              Id. at 761 (emphases added).                  We


                                        - 33 -
take it that a crucial component of Braidwood's analysis was the

Task Force's ability to directly bind insurers.           Id. at 761-62.

Had the case required the HHS Secretary to take some affirmative

action before its recommendations gained the force of law, we doubt

that Braidwood would have been able to challenge the Task Force's

structure.   Like the Task Force in Braidwood as it existed before

2010, the Councils here are advisory bodies which lack the power

to effectuate rules and regulations with legally binding effects.18

           The Association responds that the lack of a statutory

provision that enacts Council-proposed regulations            as legally

binding in the face of Secretarial inaction "hardly matters" given

that Council-proposed FMPs and amendments can "take effect as if

approved" after Secretarial inaction under § 1854(a)(3)(C).           Our

earlier explanation disposes of this argument, which amounts to an

argument   that   we   should   disregard   different   textual   language

choices in the Act as "hardly matter[ing]."        That "argument flips

the rule that '[w]hen Congress includes particular language in one

section of a statute but omits it in another section of the same

Act, we generally take the choice to be deliberate.'" Bartenwerfer

v. Buckley, 598 U.S. 69, 78 (2023)            (alteration in original)




     18 The case here might be different if Council action could
become legally binding simply through the Secretary's inaction, as
in Braidwood, 606 U.S. at 766–67.


                                  - 34 -
(internal quotation marks omitted) (quoting Badgerow v. Walters,

596 U.S. 1, 11 (2022)).

               Our     holding       is   also   consistent       with   Freytag     v.

Commissioner, 501 U.S. 868 (1991), where there was no question

that    the     U.S.    Tax   Court       Special    Trial     Judge   ("STJ")    whose

appointment was challenged had harmed the plaintiff in the tax

proceedings below through adverse rulings.                     The initial question,

then, was whether the STJ who committed those harms served as an

employee       or    inferior    officer.           Id.   at   880-81.     Those    tax

proceedings occurred under 26 U.S.C. § 7443A(b)(4), which meant

the STJ could only recommend a disposition of the case which then

had to be adopted by a higher official to take effect.                           Id. at

881.        The government argued that this advisory feature made the

STJ an employee for purposes of the case.                  Id.    The Court rejected

the argument that STJs were employees first by determining that

the    STJ's        ability     to    make   evidentiary         and   administrative

record-building decisions made the STJ an inferior officer despite

the inability to render a final disposition in § 7443A(b)(4) cases.

Id. at 881-82.          The Association's argument by analogy that the

Councils here similarly "critically shape"                       the administrative

record used by the Secretary in evaluating the Council's proposals

both fails and mischaracterizes the text of the Act.19                      Far from



        The Association's argument is not improved by its citation
       19

to Lucia v. SEC, 585 U.S. 237 (2018), another Appointments Clause


                                           - 35 -
restricting the Secretary to the Council-developed record, the

text of the Act requires the Secretary to "take into account the

information, views, and comments received from interested persons"

during the notice and comment period, 16 U.S.C. § 1854(a)(2)(A),

and, as described, to consult with other federal secretaries, see

id.   § 1854(a)(2)(B)–(C),    during     the   Secretary's       review    of    a

Council-proposed FMP.20      The Fifth Circuit has reached the same

conclusion.   See Arnesen, 170 F.4th at 978 ("[W]e read the Act to

empower the Secretary to consider other information in reviewing

and    revising    [Council-proposed]          [FMPs],     amendments,          or

[regulations];    the   Secretary   is   not    confined    to    solely    the

Council's proposals nor the Council's basis for its proposals.").

           We also note key distinctions between this case and both

Lucia and Freytag.      Lucia made clear that an official may be an


case involving officials serving judicial functions. Lucia stated
that "Freytag says everything necessary to decide this case" and,
following the Freytag analytical framework, held that SEC
Administrative Law Judges ("ALJs") were inferior officers who were
appointed by SEC employees in violation of the Appointments Clause.
Id. at 241, 247. The Court in Lucia said that the ALJs' authority
to rule on the admissibility of evidence was also the authority to
"critically shape the administrative record." Id. at 248.
      20We also note that Freytag v. Commissioner held that
because each STJ's appointment was made by the Chief Judge of the
Tax Court, there was no violation of the language of the
Appointments Clause pertaining to "Courts of Law." 501 U.S. 868,
891-92 (1991).   Unlike Freytag, our case does not involve the
"Courts of Law" language of the Appointments Clause and that
provides reason to doubt that in this different context, any
analogy to creation of records as in courts of law is a useful
analysis.


                                 - 36 -
officer even if decisions made by the official are subject to

review, as long as these decisions can themselves become final and

have binding effect.     See Lucia, 585 U.S. at 248–49 (reasoning, in

part, that the ability of an ALJ to render a decision that would

become final and binding if the SEC chose not to review the

decision supported the conclusion that the ALJ was an "officer").

Here,   even     Secretary      inaction    (which     would      allow   a

Council-developed FMP to become final) is insufficient to give

binding effect to a Council-developed FMP.           Rather, as we have

explained, the Secretary must take the additional affirmative step

of adopting binding regulations that can be shaped through the

Secretary's exercise of substantial discretion.         And as the Court

noted in Financial Oversight & Management Board for Puerto Rico v.

Aurelius Investment, LLC, 590 U.S. 448 (2020), Freytag was also

concerned with manipulations of appointments in order to avoid the

executive accountability required under the Appointments Clause,

which is not an issue here.       Id. at 457.      Rather, the Council's

structure    ensures   that   interested   State   stakeholders    have   an

opportunity to advise a constitutionally appointed officer, the

Secretary, who can be held accountable for his fishery management

decisions.

            The Association makes the additional argument that in

evaluating an Appointments Clause claim, courts must consider all

of an official's powers, including here two Act subsections, 16


                                  - 37 -
U.S.C.      § 1854(c)(3)     and    (h),21    which   were      uninvolved    in   the

enactment      of    the    Framework        Adjustment    65     Final     Rule   and

implementing regulations.             The argument is based on its view of

some language in Freytag and Lucia but also fails.                        The Freytag

Court held that STJs were inferior officers even if some of their

trial-conducting           powers     were      insufficient       to      constitute

significant authority and were only the powers of employees.                        501

U.S. at 881-82.       The Freytag Court reasoned that was because the

STJ did retain final authority to decide cases under subsections

(b)(1), (2), and (3), which were not involved in the pending case.

Id.;    see   also   Lucia,     585    U.S.    at   247   n.4.      Based    on    this

characterization of Freytag and Lucia, the Association argues it

is entitled to relief based on these two uninvolved subsections.

              Even on this understanding of Freytag and Lucia, the

case before us is meaningfully distinguishable.                     Here, the harm

from the Framework Adjustment 65 Final Rule and implementing

regulations cannot be said to have been caused by the Council's


        Section 1854(c)(3), which requires any Secretary-prepared
       21

FMP with a limited access system to get the approval of a majority
of the relevant Council's voting members, was not involved here,
as Framework Adjustment 65 was not prepared by the Secretary and
does not contain a limited access system. Indeed, the Secretary
represents that this provision has never been invoked in the fifty
years since the Act's passage. Section 1854(h), which requires a
three-quarters majority of a Council to approve the Secretary's
repeal or revocation of an FMP, is also inapplicable as the
Secretary did not seek to repeal or revoke an FMP here.        The
Secretary reports, and the Association does not contest, that this
provision has never blocked a Secretarial proposal.


                                       - 38 -
actions at all: not by the Council's advisory actions, as discussed

above, nor by the two uninvolved subsections, which the Association

itself describes as "not even at issue" in Framework Adjustment

65.     That makes the Association unlike the plaintiffs in Freytag

or Lucia, where the challenged official's actions clearly caused

the plaintiff harm in agency adjudication proceedings, even if the

official caused the harm using only powers of an employee. Without

any Council-caused injury, we have no reason to consider the

uninvolved subsections of the Act.22

              It is true that two of our sister circuits, on different

briefing, reached the merits of similar Appointments Clause claims

concerning these two subsections.         See Arnesen, 170 F.4th at 975;

Lofstad, 117 F.4th at 499.          In neither case did the circuits

approve injunctive relief against the challenged amendments to

FMPs.      Indeed, the courts differed as to the import of their chosen

remedies in severing these two subsections, which they referred to

as "pocket veto" authorities.        The Fifth Circuit chose to sever

these two subsections and then granted judgment for the government.

Arnesen, 170 F.4th at 975, 979-80. The Third Circuit, in contrast,

applied      severance   and   granted   judgment   for   the   plaintiffs.



      22As we conclude the Association's final argument based on
the two uninvolved subsections fails, we need not address the
Secretary's independent argument that the Association lacks
standing to bring this argument even if it has standing to bring
its primary argument.


                                   - 39 -
Lofstad, 117 F.4th at 501-02.23       Lofstad's standing analysis relied

in part on past Third Circuit caselaw holding that a "litigant

need not show direct harm or prejudice caused by an Appointments

Clause violation . . . .        Such harm is presumed."            Id. at 497

(quoting Cirko v. Comm'r of Soc. Sec., 948 F.3d 148, 154 (3d Cir.

2020)). The First Circuit has not adopted any such rule.              Further,

the Association itself acknowledges that the severance remedy path

taken by the Third and Fifth Circuits, which was also the district

court's   remedy    here,   would    not    redress   the   injury   that    the

Association's members are suffering.

                                      IV.

           For     the   foregoing    reasons,    the   judgment     below   is

affirmed in part as to its denial of injunctive and declaratory

relief and reversed in part and vacated as to its severing of 16

U.S.C. § 1854(c)(3) and (h).




     23 Lofstad    v.    Raimondo   also    severed   16    U.S.C.
§ 1856(a)(3)(b).   117 F.4th 493, 499, 501 (3d Cir. 2024).     The
Association did not challenge that uninvolved provision, which
concerns delegation of fishery management to state governments, in
either the district court or on appeal.


                                     - 40 -
