                   United States Court of Appeals
                            FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT




No. 24-1057                                                   September Term, 2024
                                                              FILED ON: DECEMBER 3, 2024

THE HEALING HEALTHCARE 3, INC., D/B/A CURALEAF CAMELBACK DISPENSARY,
                  PETITIONER AND CROSS-RESPONDENT

v.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD,
                  RESPONDENT AND CROSS-PETITIONER

UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL 99,
                  INTERVENOR



Consolidated with 24-1072

                         On Petition for Review and Cross-Application
                                  for Enforcement of an Order
                            of the National Labor Relations Board



       Before: MILLETT and GARCIA, Circuit Judges, and ROGERS, Senior Circuit Judge.

                                        JUDGMENT


        This case was considered on the record from the National Labor Relations Board, and on
the briefs of the parties. The Court has afforded the issues full consideration and has determined
that they do not warrant a published opinion. See FED. R. APP. P. 36; D.C. CIR. R. 36(d). It is

       ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that Curaleaf’s petition for review is DISMISSED. The
National Labor Relations Board’s cross-application for enforcement is GRANTED.

        Curaleaf petitions this court to set aside its employees’ unionization election because the
National Labor Relations Board Regional Director left out of the election notice the final date for
tallying votes. Although Curaleaf presented this objection to the Regional Director during its
                                                        1
proceeding challenging the representation election, Curaleaf did not appeal this objection to the
Board. Because we only have jurisdiction to consider objections properly presented to the Board,
we dismiss Curaleaf’s petition for lack of jurisdiction.

                                                      I

                                                      A

        The National Labor Relations Act gives employees “the right to * * * bargain collectively
through representatives of their own choosing[.]” 29 U.S.C. § 157. Employees elect
representatives through majority voting. Id. § 159(a). An election is either “manual” (in person)
or “by mail[.]” NATIONAL LABOR RELS. BD. CASEHANDLING MANUAL (PART 2) §§ 11301.2,
11301.1 (2023). The National Labor Relations Board has a longstanding preference for manual
elections. Id. § 11301.2. But the Regional Director for a given area decides whether a particular
election should be manual or by mail. Id. Both manual and mail ballot elections require the
Regional Director to provide the Board’s notice of election “to the parties and their designated
representatives.” 29 C.F.R. § 102.62(e).

        The notice of election provides necessary information about the election to the employees,
employer, and union representatives. The notice “should contain, at a minimum, * * * the date,
place, and hours of election and * * * the date, time and place where ballots will be mingled and
counted.” NATIONAL LABOR RELS. BD. CASEHANDLING MANUAL (PART 2) § 11314.1. The
tallying date is important because any ballot received prior to that date is counted. Id. § 11336.5(c).

         After the Regional Director provides the notice of election, employers have a duty to post
it “in conspicuous places * * * at least 3 full working days” before the election, as well as to send
the notice out electronically to all eligible voters. 29 C.F.R. § 102.67(k). A failure by the employer
to adequately provide notice “shall be grounds for setting aside the election[.]” Id.

        To raise a challenge to a union representation proceeding, including to the adequacy of the
notice of election, a party must file its objection with the Regional Director “[w]ithin 5 business
days after the tally of ballots has been prepared,” and the objection must “contain a short statement
of the reasons” supporting it. 29 C.F.R. § 102.69(a)(8).

        The Regional Director’s decision on the objection is final unless the Board grants a request
for review. 29 C.F.R. § 102.67(g). If the Board grants review, the parties’ briefing of their claims
is “limited to the issues raised in the request for review” that was submitted to the Regional
Director. Id. § 102.67(h). The Board then decides the appeal “as it deems appropriate” based on
the “entire record in the light of the grounds relied on for review[.]” Id.

        The Board’s decisions in representation proceedings are not directly reviewable by Article
III courts. Boire v. Greyhound Corp., 376 U.S. 473, 476-477 (1964). Instead, to challenge a
representation proceeding, a party must decline to bargain with the union and then appeal a final
order by the Board finding that the refusal to bargain was an unfair labor practice under Section

                                                       2
10(e) of the National Labor Relations Act. 29 U.S.C. § 160(f).

                                                      B

        Healing Healthcare 3, Inc. conducts business as the Curaleaf Camelback Dispensary
(“Curaleaf”). On May 20, 2022 the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union
Local 99 (“Union”) filed a petition with the Board to represent store associates employed by
Curaleaf. Although the Union and Curaleaf agreed to hold an in-person election for the employees
to vote on collective representation, Regional Director Cornele Overstreet, the Board’s Regional
Director for Phoenix, Arizona, decided to use mail balloting instead due to COVID-19. Ballots
were mailed to employees on July 7, 2022.

        Regional Director Overstreet provided Curaleaf with a Notice of Election to display in the
Camelback Dispensary. The Notice of Election stated that ballots must be received by July 28,
2022. The Notice of Election, however, failed to identify the day votes would be tallied. On
August 3, 2022, six days after the mailing deadline, the Regional Director contacted the Union and
Curaleaf to set the vote tallying date as August 12, 2022. When the votes were counted on August
12th, the Union won 8-5 after four ballots were challenged and one ballot was voided. Of the 38
eligible employees, only 18 cast a ballot.

       Curaleaf subsequently filed four objections to the election with the Regional Director:

              1. The Regional Director abused their discretion by ordering a mail ballot
              election on the basis of positivity rates that were inherently unreliable due to
              the lack of reliable reporting for negative test results as the basis for ordering
              a mail ballot election.

              2. The Region unduly impacted the results of the current election by delaying
              the scheduling of the ordered videoconference to count ballots.

              3. The Region failed to specify the time, date, and location of where ballots
              would be co-mingled and counted in the notice of election.

              4. The tally of ballots is not accurate. Specifically, the ballots of employees
              were mailed sufficiently to have been received by the Region in its offices by
              July 28, 2022. However, despite that fact, were not presented or included in
              the tally of ballots that occurred on August 12, 2022.

JA 109–110.

        Because Regional Director Overstreet was the subject of the objections, a different
director—Regional Director Teresa Poor—was assigned to review the matter. Regional Director
Poor overruled Curaleaf’s objections without a hearing and issued a “Certification of
Representative” to the Union.

                                                       3
       On June 8, 2023, Curaleaf timely filed a request with the Board seeking review of Regional
Director Poor’s representation decision. This request raised objections 1, 2, and 4 from those
submitted to Regional Director Poor. Objection 3, concerning the Notice of Election’s failure to
specify the date of tallying, was omitted:

             1. The Regional Director abused their discretion by ordering a mail ballot
             election on the basis of positivity rates that were inherently unreliable due to
             the lack of reliable reporting for negative test results as the basis for ordering
             a mail ballot election.

             2. The Region unduly impacted the results of the current election by delaying
             the scheduling of the ordered videoconference to count ballots.

             3. The tally of ballots is not accurate. Specifically, the ballots of employees
             were mailed sufficiently to have been received by the Region in its offices by
             July 28, 2022. However, despite that fact, were not presented or included in
             the tally of ballots that occurred on August 12, 2022.

JA 125.

       The Board determined Curaleaf’s request “raise[d] no substantial issues warranting
review” and issued a denial on July 27, 2023.

        The Union then asked Curaleaf to recognize it as the collective-bargaining representative
and provide information relating to employment policies and benefits. Curaleaf said that it would
not recognize the Union and would not provide the requested information so that it could seek
judicial review of its challenges to the earlier representation proceeding.

        Shortly thereafter, the Union filed unfair labor practice charges against Curaleaf. The
Board’s regional office issued a complaint and notice of hearing alleging violations of Sections
8(a)(1) and (a)(5) of the National Labor Relations Act. Curaleaf responded that the Union was
improperly certified and so was not lawfully the employees’ exclusive collective-bargaining
representative. JA 249. The Board held that the representation proceeding was proper, found that
Curaleaf’s failure to recognize and bargain with the Union violated Sections 8(a)(1) and (a)(5) of
the Act, and ordered Curaleaf to recognize the Union.

                                                     II

        Curaleaf petitions this court to review the Board’s final decision finding that it had
committed unfair labor practices. Pet. for Rev. at 1. Curaleaf’s brief raises a single issue—“the
Region’s failure to issue a complete and proper Notice of Election accurately reflecting the date
and time of the ballot count.” Pet. Br. at 17-27; Pet. Reply Br. 2-16. The Board cross-petitioned
to enforce its order.

                                                      4
     Curaleaf’s petition for review must be dismissed for lack of jurisdiction. The law is well-
settled that this court lacks jurisdiction to consider objections that are not raised “in the time and
manner that the Board’s regulations require.” Spectrum Health—Kent Cmty. Campus v. NLRB,
647 F.3d 341, 349 (D.C. Cir. 2011); see Woelke & Romero Framing, Inc. v. NLRB, 456 U.S. 645,
666 (1982); Stephens Media, LLC v. NLRB, 677 F.3d 1241, 1255 (D.C. Cir. 2012); Nova Se. Univ.
v. NLRB, 807 F.3d 308, 313 (D.C. Cir. 2015); see also 29 U.S.C. § 160(e), (f). The Board’s
regulations, in turn, obligate parties to raise any and all objections to the representation proceeding
in their request for Board review of the underlying representation proceedings themselves if they
wish “to preserve the issues for consideration in subsequent unfair labor practice proceedings.”
PruittHealth-Virginia Park, LLC v. NLRB, 888 F.3d 1285, 1295 (D.C. Cir. 2018); see 29 C.F.R.
§ 102.67(g). As we explained in PruittHealth, this means there is no jurisdiction to hear an
objection to an unfair labor practice proceeding that is premised on an objection to an improper
representation proceeding unless that objection was first presented to the Board in the
representation proceeding itself. 888 F.3d at 1295-1296.

     Curaleaf did not present its objection to the omission of a tallying date in the Notice of Election
during the underlying representation proceeding before the Board. In the representation
proceeding, Curaleaf only raised three objections before the Board, choosing to drop its tally-
notice objection. JA 125. Because Curaleaf chose not to present its objection to the sufficiency
of the election’s tally-notice to the Board, we lack jurisdiction to consider it.

       Curaleaf makes two arguments in support of jurisdiction, neither of which succeeds.

       First, Curaleaf argues that it did adequately raise the tally-notice objection to the Board.
Curaleaf points to citations in its petition to the Board in the underlying representation proceeding
where Curaleaf noted the failure to provide the time and date of the ballot tally in the Notice of
Election. Pet. Reply Br. 6-7.

       But there is a difference between citing to a fact and presenting an argument. Curaleaf’s
claims before the Board were not about the omission of notice, but instead were about Regional
Director Overstreet’s undue extension of the election period. Curaleaf’s theory was that Regional
Director Overstreet intentionally left out the tallying date so he could maintain discretion over
when to end the election. According to Curaleaf, employees may have kept voting after the mail-
by date while Regional Director Overstreet waited to announce the tally until union votes
outnumbered non-union votes. JA 137. At no point did Curaleaf make the separate argument
advanced here that the omission of a tally date from the Notice of Election itself was error.

        Yet now Curaleaf has turned around and argues to this court that, due to the omission of a
tally date in the Notice of Election, voters who would otherwise have kept voting beyond the mail-
by date may have been discouraged from doing so because they thought the mail-by date was the
last date they could send a ballot and have it counted. Pet. Br. 25. This assertedly skewed the
election because ballots were not mailed that otherwise would have been counted. Id.


                                                       5
        The only thing the two arguments have in common is the fact that there was no tallying
date in the Notice of Election. Otherwise, they are wholly contradictory: Curaleaf insisted to the
Board that employees kept voting after the mail-by date, but now tells this court that employees
stopped voting after the mail-by date. Because the argument Curaleaf presented to the Board is
the opposite of the tally-notice argument that Curaleaf advances here, Curaleaf’s notice argument
was not preserved.

        Second, Curaleaf argues that this court has jurisdiction because it presented its notice
argument to Regional Director Poor, and Section 10(e) of the Act states that no “objection that has
not been urged before the Board, its member, agent, or agency, shall be considered by the court[.]”
29 U.S.C. § 160(e) (emphasis added); see Pet. Reply Br. 12. According to Curaleaf, because
Regional Director Poor is an ‘agent’ of the Board who heard Curaleaf’s notice objection, we have
jurisdiction to review her decision. For authority, Curaleaf points to Thryv, Inc. v. NLRB, 102
F.4th 727, 741 (5th Cir. 2024).

       Our precedent forecloses this argument. We have held in no uncertain terms that presenting
an objection to the Board is a jurisdictional prerequisite. Raising an argument only before the
Regional Director does not suffice. See PruittHealth, 888 F.3d at 1295. That precedent binds this
panel. See LaShawn A. v. Barry, 87 F.3d 1389, 1395 (D.C. Cir. 1996).

                                                 *****

       For the foregoing reasons, Curaleaf’s petition for review is dismissed and the Board’s
cross-application for enforcement is granted.

        Pursuant to D.C. Circuit Rule 36, this disposition will not be published. The Clerk is
directed to withhold issuance of the mandate until seven days after resolution of any timely petition
for rehearing or rehearing en banc. See FED. R. APP. P. 41(b); D.C. CIR. R. 41.


                                           Per Curiam



                                                              FOR THE COURT:
                                                              Mark J. Langer, Clerk

                                                      BY:    /s/
                                                             Scott H. Atchue
                                                             Deputy Clerk




                                                      6
