          United States Court of Appeals
                     For the First Circuit


No. 23-1615

                     DANIEL RICHARD MAHONEY,

                      Plaintiff, Appellant,

                               v.

    CARLOS DEL TORO, Secretary, U.S. Department of the Navy,

                      Defendant, Appellee.


          APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
               FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS

        [Hon. F. Dennis Saylor, IV, U.S. District Judge]


                             Before

                  Rikelman, Lynch, and Howard,
                        Circuit Judges.


     Emily Dupraz, with whom Jeff Goldman and Morgan, Lewis &
Bockius LLP were on brief, for appellant.
     Michael L. Fitzgerald, Assistant United States Attorney, with
whom Joshua S. Levy, Acting United States Attorney, was on brief,
for appellee.


                         April 18, 2024
            LYNCH, Circuit Judge.     Appellant Daniel Richard Mahoney,

a U.S. Navy veteran, argues that the district court erred in

rejecting his Administrative Procedure Act ("APA") challenge to

the Board for Correction of Naval Records' ("BCNR") decision

denying his 2018 petition to upgrade his 1989 other than honorable

discharge status.    See Mahoney v. Del Toro, No. 22-11074, 2023 WL

3587285 (D. Mass. May 22, 2023).       We agree with the district court

that the BCNR reasonably determined that Mahoney had failed to

provide "substantial evidence" of "probable material error or

injustice"   to   overcome    the   BCNR's   presumption    that   military

officers "have properly discharged their official duties."              32

C.F.R. § 723.3(e)(2).        We hold that the BCNR's decision was not

arbitrary or capricious, an abuse of discretion, unsupported by

substantial evidence, or contrary to law.        See 5 U.S.C. § 706(2).

We affirm the district court's decision and reject Mahoney's

challenge to the BCNR's decision.

                                     I.

            The following undisputed facts were in the record before

the BCNR.    Mahoney had two periods of service.           The first, from

1985 to 1988, resulted in an honorable discharge.              The second

period, from 1988 to 1989, resulted in the other than honorable

discharge status at issue before the BCNR.

            Mahoney first enlisted in the Navy on August 27, 1985.

During this enlistment, he "witnessed a number of traumatic events"


                                    - 2 -
while    deployed   on     the   USS   Luce,     which    escorted    oil    tankers

throughout the Persian Gulf during the Iran-Iraq war.                  Mahoney did

not receive any non-judicial punishments ("NJPs") during this

time, and he was awarded a commendation for his work on the USS

Luce and another for outstanding performance.                 He received three

service ribbons.      On August 24, 1988, Mahoney's first deployment

ended, and he was honorably discharged.

            Mahoney reenlisted the next day.               The second period of

service was markedly different.            He was again assigned to the USS

Luce, which was then stationed in Florida.                    In December 1988,

Mahoney received an NJP for an unauthorized absence of thirty

minutes from his appointed place of duty.                In January 1989, he was

apprehended by civilian authorities for driving while intoxicated,

speeding, and "attaching [a] tag to [a] vehicle not assigned" to

it.     In February 1989, he received a second NJP for a separate

incident involving "drunkenness."

            In   March     1989,   the    Navy    evaluated       Mahoney    for   and

diagnosed    him    with    alcohol      dependency.        The    Navy     evaluator

recommended that Mahoney participate in an inpatient program for

treatment of his alcohol dependency.               Mahoney received treatment

at the Naval Hospital in Pensacola, Florida from April 23 to June

2, 1989.    He did not receive treatment during this time for "[his]

stress disorder or the stress symptoms [he provided some evidence

to the BCNR he] was then experiencing."                  In July 1989, following


                                       - 3 -
a relapse of his alcohol dependency, Mahoney received a third NJP

for an unauthorized absence of one hour and fifty-three minutes.

          In September 1989, Mahoney tested positive for marijuana

following a random urinalysis.    He did not contest the positive

result of the urinalysis.   He received a fourth NJP that month for

an unauthorized absence of eleven hours and thirty minutes, another

and different unauthorized absence of thirty minutes, and for

wrongful use of a controlled substance.

          On September 28, 1989, Mahoney's commanding officer sent

him a letter notifying him that he was "being considered for an

administrative discharge from the naval service by reason of

Misconduct due to drug abuse and a pattern of misconduct as

evidenced by four Commanding Officer's Non-Judicial Punis[h]ments

in this enlistment." The letter further gave him notice that "[i]f

separation is approved, the characteri[]zation of your service may

be under other than honorable conditions."

          Mahoney in response declined an opportunity to consult

with counsel or to be heard before an administrative board.   In a

voluntary statement to the Navy on September 29, 1989, Mahoney

stated that he "underst[oo]d [he was] being processed for discharge

for misconduct," and that he "still ha[s] not overcome [his]

drinking problem."   Mahoney further stated that his "only concern

[was for] this processing [to go] as smoothly as possible" so that

he could "receive treatment in connection with this processing."


                               - 4 -
On October 16, 1989, Mahoney declined an offer by the Navy to

participate in a Department of Veterans Affairs ("VA") thirty-day

drug treatment program for which he was eligible.

            On October 17, 1989, Mahoney was discharged from the

Navy under other than honorable conditions. In discharge paperwork

recommending       administrative   separation   signed   by   Mahoney's

commanding officer, the reason for the separation was stated as

"misconduct due to drug abuse and pattern of misconduct."              The

recommendation further listed the dates of the four NJPs that

Mahoney had received, as well as the reasons for each NJP.            Under

"Comments    and     recommendations   of   Commanding    Officer,"    the

recommendation stated:

            [Mahoney] was discharged from active Naval
            Service due to drug abuse and a pattern of
            Misconduct with characterization of service as
            other than honorable.    The action taken is
            considered appropriate due to [Mahoney's]
            continued flagrant and willful violations of
            the [Uniform Code of Military Justice], poor
            attitude and resultant burden to the command.
            [Mahoney] was counseled . . . on [July 16,
            1989], and [December 12, 1988,] concerning
            being processed for a discharge under less
            than honorable conditions if his performance
            and behavior does not improve. [Mahoney] had
            previously indicated his desire to participate
            in the VA drug treatment program. On [October
            16, 1989,] [Mahoney] changed his request for
            the VA drug program and signed page 13 stating
            he declines this treatment.        [Mahoney's]
            disciplinary record documents his continued
            misconduct. The most recent incident includes
            two specifications of going on unauthorized
            absence and one specification of wrongful use
            of controlled substance.       Based upon a


                                    - 5 -
            thorough review of all evidence presented I
            have reached a conclusion that [Mahoney] is of
            no further use to the Naval Service and that
            any continued time spent in the Navy would
            only cause the Navy and the command more
            trouble than it is worth. [Mahoney] does not
            object to type of discharge.

            On his discharge, Mahoney did not contest the finding

that he had used marijuana during his service, his commanding

officer's   conclusions,     or    his    other   than   honorable   discharge

status, nor did he explain his decision to reject the offered drug

treatment program.

                                      II.

                                         A.

            On September 17, 2018, approximately twenty-nine years

after his discharge from the Navy, Mahoney submitted through

counsel a petition to the BCNR "request[ing] that the [BCNR]

upgrade his characterization of service to Honorable or, in the

alternative,    General    Under     Honorable      Conditions."       Mahoney

provided three "main reasons" for his request.             First, that

            [Post-traumatic stress disorder ("PTSD")]
            should be considered a mitigating factor for
            the misconduct that [Mahoney] engaged in that
            ultimately led to [his] discharge under Other
            than Honorable circumstances, and in this
            review by the Board, these circumstances, as
            mitigating factors, should be given liberal
            and special consideration under the Hagel Memo
            and the Kurta Memo.

Second, Mahoney argued that his "commendable overall in-service

performance    and   model        post-discharge     behavior      demonstrate


                                     - 6 -
equitable considerations that weigh in favor of an upgrade."

Third, Mahoney "would under current procedures likely have been

medically discharged."         Mahoney stated in his petition that his

PTSD had caused his alcohol dependency, which in turn had led to

misconduct that "amounted to no more than multiple instances of

unauthorized absences, with some absences being very short in

duration, and an instance of drunkenness."

           Mahoney did not address in his petition the Navy's

finding   that   he    had    wrongfully    used    a   controlled    substance.

Mahoney requested an opportunity to appear before the BCNR as part

of his petition.

           Mahoney      submitted     in    support     of   his    petition    an

assessment report by Sandra A. Dixon, a licensed psychologist.

Based on in-person interviews and medical records provided for

review,   Dr.    Dixon       concluded     that    during    Mahoney's     second

enlistment he had met the criteria for a PTSD diagnosis "at a

severe level" and a Major Depressive Disorder diagnosis. Dr. Dixon

also   concluded      that,    had   Mahoney      received   a     more   thorough

evaluation during his time in the Navy, it "likely would have

revealed that he was meeting the diagnosis for PTSD," and further,

that the treatment Mahoney had received for alcohol abuse during

his enlistment was inadequate for "someone who was exhibiting

trauma responses."       Dr. Dixon concluded that "there is a clear

nexus between [Mahoney's] mental health disorders, specifically


                                     - 7 -
PTSD, and the conduct leading to [his] discharge."      Dr. Dixon also

stated that Mahoney's PTSD symptoms "directly led to his abuse of

alcohol."

            Mahoney   additionally   submitted   in   support   of   his

petition an affidavit.      Mahoney in this affidavit stated that

during his second enlistment,

            [he] had extreme difficulty sleeping and felt
            like [he] was always under constant stress.
            [He] felt like [he] needed to sit with [his]
            back to the wall. [He] also had overwhelming
            feelings of horror, anger and guilt daily, and
            continued to relive [his] experience in the
            Persian Gulf.   [He] discovered that alcohol
            helped stop some of these troubling thoughts
            and also helped [him] fall asleep. [He] was
            not aware at the time that [he] was exhibiting
            symptoms    because    of    an    undiagnosed
            post-traumatic stress disorder [he] had
            stemming from the traumatic experience in the
            Persian Gulf.

            Key to the BCNR's decision was Mahoney's statement, also

in this affidavit, which addressed for the first time the positive

urinalysis:

            I did not knowingly consume any marijuana or
            any other controlled substance during [my
            enlistments in the Navy]. . . . In 1989, I
            was involved in an incident during liberty
            where I was surrounded by other sailors who
            were consuming marijuana. I did not knowingly
            consume any marijuana that evening on liberty,
            but I was drinking alcohol. During this time,
            another sailor tossed a marijuana joint that
            landed in the alcoholic beverage I was
            drinking at the time.    The next day, I was
            subject to a random urinalysis and I tested
            positive for marijuana.



                                - 8 -
Mahoney has not contested the results of the urinalysis.

           As part of the BCNR's review of Mahoney's petition, the

BCNR   referred   Mahoney's    petition    to   a   Navy    mental   health

professional, Dr. Molly Summers, who submitted an advisory opinion

based on her review of the administrative record.              Dr. Summers

concluded in her opinion that "[i]t is reasonable to attribute

[Mahoney's] continued misconduct following alcohol treatment to

continued mental health symptoms."

           On March 2, 2020, the BCNR denied Mahoney's petition in

a decision letter.       The BCNR in its letter rejected Mahoney's

request for a personal appearance, determining that "a personal

appearance with or without counsel [would] not materially add to

[the BCNR's] understanding of the issues involved."              The BCNR

therefore "considered [Mahoney's] case based on the evidence of

record."

           The BCNR stated in its decision letter that it had

"carefully    reviewed     [Mahoney's]     application,      weighed    all

potentially   mitigating      factors,    and   considered     [Mahoney's]

contention that PTSD should be considered a mitigating factor for

the misconduct [he] engaged in that ultimately led to his [other

than honorable] discharge."       (Emphasis added.)        The BCNR in its

decision letter considered Mahoney's contention that his alcohol

abuse had resulted from his PTSD symptoms.             The BCNR further

considered Mahoney's "commendable overall in-service performance


                                  - 9 -
and   model    post-discharge    behavior,       .    .   .   [his]    post-service

achievements, such as being sober since 2006, graduating from

college, as well as [his] involvement as an active church member

and   community    volunteer."        The   BCNR     additionally       "considered

[Mahoney's] contention that, under current procedures, [he] would

likely have been medically discharged instead of receiving an

administrative      discharge        with   an       [other     than    honorable]

characterization of service."

              The BCNR concluded that these factors "did not mitigate

the drug-related misconduct which led to [Mahoney's] discharge,"

and so this misconduct continued to "support[] discharge from the

naval service with an other than honorable characterization of

service."     The BCNR determined that Mahoney had "not meaningfully

address[ed]       the   .   .    .     'drug       abuse'      basis     for   [his

separation] -- other than contending that [he] did not knowingly

use a controlled substance."            The BCNR stated that it was "not

persuaded to disturb th[e] finding" that "by a preponderance of

the evidence" Mahoney had wrongfully used a controlled substance

in-service.     The BCNR stated that Mahoney had not "explain[ed] how

a 'marijuana joint' landing in [his] alcoholic beverage [had]

caused [him] to ingest marijuana."               (Emphasis added.)        The BCNR

took into account in its decision that Mahoney had "not admit[ted]

to wrongful drug use," and had not "contend[ed] that wrongful drug

or marijuana use was a part of [his] means of self-medicating due


                                      - 10 -
to PTSD.    At no point [did] [Mahoney] or any medical professional

attribute [his] NJP for wrongful drug use to self-medication due

to PTSD."    (Emphasis added.)

            The BCNR provided further explanation of its reasoning:

            Assuming,   arguendo,     that    [Mahoney]   had
            undiagnosed, in-service PTSD at the time of
            [his]     misconduct,         after      thorough
            consideration   of    [his]     contentions   and
            mitigating factors, the Board, applying
            liberal   consideration,       determined    that
            [Mahoney's]   PTSD   did     not   mitigate   the
            drug-related misconduct which led to [his]
            discharge. . . .    The Board determined that
            the explanation for testing positive for
            marijuana contained in [Mahoney's] sworn
            personal statement was neither plausible nor
            supported by [his] submission.          Moreover,
            [Mahoney] ha[s] consistently denied wrongful
            use of drugs in-service -- let alone ever
            attributing    it    to     another     form   of
            self-medication due to [his] undiagnosed,
            in-service PTSD.    As such, [Mahoney's] PTSD
            cannot be said to have mitigated [his]
            wrongful drug use on this occasion, or [his]
            separation based on misconduct due to that
            drug abuse.       As this determination is
            dispositive of [his] petition, the Board need
            not address the merits of [Mahoney's] PTSD
            contentions or the alternate, pattern of
            misconduct,   basis    of    [his]    separation.
            Accordingly, under the totality of the
            circumstances and for the foregoing reasons,
            the Board in its review discerned no probable
            material error or injustice that warrants
            changing   [Mahoney's]     characterization    of
            service.

                                   B.

            On July 5, 2022, Mahoney filed a complaint against

appellee Carlos Del Toro, U.S. Secretary of the Navy, in the



                                 - 11 -
District       Court    for       the   District       of   Massachusetts,       requesting

judicial review of the BCNR's decision.                            See Mahoney, 2023 WL

3587285, at *6.         Mahoney "contend[ed] that the BCNR's decision was

arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, unsupported by

substantial evidence, and contrary to law." Id. Mahoney, pursuant

to the APA, 5 U.S.C. § 706(2), "request[ed] that the court enjoin

the     BCNR    to     correct          his    record       to    reflect    a    discharge

characterization             of    honorable         or     general      under    honorable

conditions."          Mahoney, 2023 WL 3587285, at *6.

               On December 22, 2022, Mahoney, pursuant to Federal Rules

of    Civil    Procedure          12(c)   and    56,      moved    for   judgment    on   the

pleadings        or     in        the     alternative        for      summary     judgment,

"request[ing] that the Court set aside the BCNR's decision and

remand the matter to the BCNR for reconsideration."                         Id.     Del Toro

cross-moved for judgment on the pleadings. Id. The district court

concluded that "the decision of the BCNR to deny relief was not

arbitrary or capricious, an abuse of discretion, or contrary to

law."    Id. at *10.          The court denied Mahoney's motions and granted

Del Toro's cross-motion.                Id.     Mahoney timely appealed.

                                               III.

                                                A.

               Under the APA, a court may set aside an agency decision

if that decision is "arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion,

or otherwise not in accordance with law," or if the decision is


                                              - 12 -
"unsupported by substantial evidence."       Sasen v. Spencer, 879 F.3d

354, 359-60 (1st Cir. 2018) (quoting 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A), (E)).

This APA standard applies to judicial review of BCNR decisions.

See Chappell v. Wallace, 462 U.S. 296, 303 (1983); Doyon v. United

States, 58 F.4th 1235, 1242 (Fed. Cir. 2023).          In applying this

standard, this court must "review the whole record or those parts

of it cited by a party."    Sasen, 879 F.3d at 360 (quoting 5 U.S.C.

§ 706(2)). We "afford no special deference to the district court's

determination[] [under this standard] but, rather, review [its]

determination[] de novo."       Id.    We therefore focus on the BCNR's

decision in reviewing Mahoney's APA claim.

          "Judicial    review     of    agency   decisions   is   'highly

deferential.'" Atieh v. Riordan, 797 F.3d 135, 138 (1st Cir. 2015)

(quoting River St. Donuts, LLC v. Napolitano, 558 F.3d 111, 114

(1st Cir. 2009)).     Accordingly, a reviewing court must uphold an

agency's decision that is free from "legal errors," United States

v. Sawyer, 521 F.3d 792, 794 (7th Cir. 2008), and "is supported by

any rational review of the record," Atieh, 797 F.3d at 138.          This

court "may not substitute its judgment for that of the [BCNR],

even if it disagrees with the [BCNR's] conclusions."         Id. (quoting

River St. Donuts, 558 F.3d at 114).1


          1    Because this case involves review of cross-motions
for judgment on the pleadings, we are required to "determine
whether either of the parties deserves judgment as a matter of law
on facts that are not disputed."      See Mercury Sys., Inc. v.


                                  - 13 -
                                        B.

          We    outline   the   applicable         law,   all   of   which   was

considered by the BCNR.

          The Secretary of the Navy may through the BCNR "correct

any military record of the [Navy] when the Secretary considers it

necessary to correct an error or remove an injustice."                 10 U.S.C.

§ 1552(a)(1).      This textual language "enable[s] the Secretary,

acting through a civilian Correction Board, to change the kind of

discharge a former service [member] ha[s] received."                    Ashe v.

McNamara, 355 F.2d 277, 280 (1st Cir. 1965).              We agree with those

circuits that have found this language to "substantially restrict

the authority of the reviewing court to upset the Secretary's

determination."2    Kreis v. Sec'y of Air Force, 866 F.2d 1508, 1514

(D.C. Cir. 1989); see also Williams v. Wynne, 533 F.3d 360, 368

(5th Cir. 2008) ("In light of this language, the review of military

board judgments is 'exceptionally deferential.'" (quoting Viles v.

Ball, 872 F.2d 491, 495 (D.C. Cir. 1989))); Bolton v. Dep't of the

Navy Bd. for Corr. of Naval Recs., 914 F.3d 401, 407 (6th Cir.

2019)   ("[O]ur     review   involves        'an     unusually       deferential




S'holder Representative Servs., LLC, 820 F.3d 46, 51 (1st Cir.
2016) (quoting Barnes v. Fleet Nat'l Bank, N.A., 370 F.3d 164, 170
(1st Cir. 2004)).

          2    Mahoney's claims lack merit whether we apply this
unusually deferential standard of review or a typical APA
deferential standard.


                                 - 14 -
application of the "arbitrary or capricious" standard' of the APA."

(quoting Kreis, 866 F.2d at 1514)).

          Under its regulations, the BCNR "relies on a presumption

of regularity to support the official actions of public officers,"

and an applicant must present "substantial evidence" of "probable

material error or injustice" to overcome this presumption.                      32

C.F.R. § 723.3(e)(2).      Hence, "the Board may deny relief if it

concludes that 'the evidence of record fails to'" refute this

presumption.      Sasen,   879    F.3d    at     360-61    (quoting    32   C.F.R.

§ 723.3(e)(2)).

          By statute, the BCNR must apply "liberal consideration"

in its review where a

          claim . . . for review of a discharge or
          dismissal is based in whole or in part on
          matters relating to [PTSD] or traumatic brain
          injury as supporting rationale, . . . and
          [where such] [PTSD] or traumatic brain injury
          is related to combat or military sexual trauma
          as     determined     by     the     Secretary
          concerned. . . . [The BCNR shall] review the
          claim with liberal consideration to the
          claimant that [PTSD] or traumatic brain injury
          potentially contributed to the circumstances
          resulting in the discharge or dismissal or to
          the   original    characterization    of   the
          claimant's discharge or dismissal.

10 U.S.C. § 1552(h)(1), (2)(B) (emphasis added).

          The   Department       of    Defense    has     issued   a   series   of

memoranda which advise Boards for Correction of Military and Naval

Records on review of these claims.                 On September 3, 2014, a



                                      - 15 -
memorandum was issued by then Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel to

the   secretaries        of    the    military       departments     ("Hagel      Memo"),

providing    supplemental            policy      guidance    for   Boards     reviewing

petitions    to    upgrade       discharge        statuses     based   on    claims    of

previously unrecognized PTSD diagnoses.                      The Hagel Memo is "not

intended    to    interfere          with   or    impede     the   Boards'    statutory

independence to correct errors or remove injustices through the

correction of military records."                     The memorandum provides that

"[l]iberal consideration will be given in petitions for changes in

characterization of service to Service treatment record entries

which document one or more symptoms which meet the diagnostic

criteria of [PTSD] or related conditions."                    The Hagel Memo further

provides that "[i]n cases in which PTSD or PTSD-related conditions

may be reasonably determined to have existed at the time of

discharge,       those        conditions         will   be    considered      potential

mitigating factors in the misconduct that caused the under other

than honorable conditions characterization of service."

            On    August       25,    2017,      then   Undersecretary       of    Defense

Anthony Kurta issued a memorandum ("Kurta Memo") whose purpose,

among others, is to provide "clarifying guidance to . . . Boards

for Correction of Military/Naval Records . . . considering requests

by veterans for modification of their discharges due in whole or

in part to mental health conditions, including [PTSD]."                           Like its

predecessor,      the     Kurta       Memo's      guidance    is   "not   intended     to


                                            - 16 -
interfere with or impede the Boards' statutory independence."   In

that context, the Kurta Memo states that among its guidance,

"[c]onditions or experiences that may reasonably have existed at

the time of discharge will be liberally considered as excusing or

mitigating the discharge."3

          On July 25, 2018, a memorandum was issued by then Under

Secretary of Defense Robert Wilkie ("Wilkie Memo").    The Wilkie

Memo provides "standards for . . . Boards for Correction of

Military / Naval Records . . . in determining whether relief is

warranted on the basis of equity, injustice, or clemency," and

reinforces the BCNR's broad discretion in reviewing claims.     The

memorandum specifies that its

          guidance does not mandate relief, but rather
          provides standards and principles to guide
          [the Boards] in application of their equitable
          relief authority. Each case will be assessed
          on its own merits.    The relative weight of
          each principle and whether the principle
          supports relief in a particular case, are
          within the sound discretion of each board.

                                  C.

          The BCNR's determination that Mahoney did not provide

substantial evidence of probable material error or injustice in

his discharge characterization was "supported by a[] rational view

of the record," Atieh, 797 F.3d at 138, and was reasonably "based


          3    The codification of the liberal consideration
standard followed issuance of the Kurta Memo. See Doyon, 58 F.4th
at 1239.


                                - 17 -
on a consideration of the relevant factors," U.S. Dep't of the

Interior v. Fed. Energy Regul. Comm'n, 876 F.3d 360, 368 (1st Cir.

2015) (quoting Bowman Transp., Inc. v. Ark.-Best Freight Sys.,

Inc., 419 U.S. 281, 285 (1974)).           As the BCNR explained in its

decision letter, there was sufficient basis for Mahoney's other

than honorable discharge characterization due to his wrongful drug

use, his lack of candor about and refusal to take responsibility

for such use, and the absence of any evidence in the record that

this drug use resulted from PTSD symptoms.            The BCNR reasonably

concluded that Mahoney's refusal to admit to his wrongful drug use

and his implausible explanation of the positive urinalysis result

did   not   warrant   changing   his   other   than   honorable   discharge

characterization.

            Not addressing these holdings, Mahoney argues that his

wrongful drug use was "relatively minor" in nature, and so did not

on its own warrant his discharge characterization.           He points to

language in the Wilkie Memo stating:

            The relative severity of some misconduct can
            change over time, thereby changing the
            relative weight of the misconduct in the case
            of the mitigating evidence in a case.     For
            example, marijuana use is still unlawful in
            the military, but it is now legal under state
            law in some states and it may be viewed, in
            the context of mitigating evidence, as less
            severe today than it was decades ago.

The argument misses the point. The Wilkie Memo lists among factors

that the Boards should consider "[a]n applicant's candor" and


                                  - 18 -
"[a]cceptance          of    responsibility,        remorse,    or     atonement   for

misconduct."

            Mahoney next lodges two legal challenges to the BCNR's

decision:       that    it   failed    to     apply    the   liberal    consideration

standard to the entirety of his claim and that, even if it did, it

applied the standard incorrectly when it ultimately denied his

petition. This argument misapprehends the BCNR's decision letter.4

The BCNR did apply the liberal consideration standard to the

entirety of Mahoney's petition.                The BCNR in its decision letter

acknowledged Mahoney's PTSD diagnosis and stated that it had

"considered [Mahoney's] contention that PTSD should be considered

a mitigating factor for the misconduct [he] engaged in that

ultimately led to [his] [other than honorable] discharge."                          The

BCNR   further        stated    that     it   had     considered     "the   diagnoses,

comments,       and    opinion    of     [Mahoney's]      civilian     mental   health

provider that there was a clear nexus between [his] mental health

disorders and the conduct leading to [his] discharge."                       The BCNR

moreover    stated          explicitly      that    it   had   "appl[ied]       liberal

consideration" before reaching its conclusion that Mahoney's PTSD




            4  Mahoney also argues that the district court "erred
in concluding that the BCNR could decline to apply the 'liberal
consideration' standard in this case." The district court did not
conclude that the BCNR could choose not to apply the liberal
consideration standard, but rather determined that this standard
did not require the BCNR to "give controlling weight" to Mahoney's
PTSD diagnosis. See Mahoney, 2023 WL 3587285, at *10.


                                          - 19 -
diagnosis "did not mitigate the drug-related misconduct which led

to [his] discharge."5             (Emphasis added.)

              The BCNR's decision, in accordance with Department of

Defense   guidance,          also    took    into     account      other      potentially

mitigating factors raised by Mahoney in his petition.                                 This

includes Mahoney's "'commendable overall in-service performance

and   model       post-discharge         behavior'    and    the   numerous       advocacy

letters   submitted          on    [his]    behalf";        Mahoney's    "post-service

achievements, such as being sober since 2006, graduating from

college, as well as [his] involvement as an active church member

and community volunteer"; and Mahoney's "contention that, under

current   procedures,             [he]    would     likely    have     been      medically

discharged instead of receiving an administrative discharge with

an [other than honorable] characterization of service."                           The BCNR

moreover stated in its decision letter that it had taken into

account guidance provided in the Hagel, Kurta, and Wilkie Memos,

and that the BCNR had "weighed all potentially mitigating factors."

              Mahoney argues that, on the basis of these potentially

mitigating factors, the BCNR was "virtually compelled" to grant

his    petition        and        thus    incorrectly        applied       the     liberal


              5Mahoney attempts to make much of the BCNR's
statement in its decision letter that it "need not address the
merits of [Mahoney's] PTSD contentions or the alternate, pattern
of misconduct, basis for [his] separation."      But the liberal
consideration standard does not require the BCNR to reach the
merits of arguments that do not pertain to its holding.


                                           - 20 -
consideration standard in failing to do so.         This is not so.   While

the Wilkie Memo instructs that the BCNR should consider various

principles and mitigating factors as part of its determination,

the memorandum also provides that "[t]he relative weight of each

principle and whether the principle supports relief in a particular

case, are within the sound discretion of each board."            It was the

BCNR's role under the law to determine whether these factors, when

weighed against Mahoney's misconduct, indicated that there was

probable   material   error   or   injustice   in    Mahoney's    discharge

characterization, and this is precisely what the BCNR did.6             The

BCNR moreover correctly applied the liberal consideration standard

when it denied Mahoney's petition in part on the basis that there

was no evident causal relationship between his PTSD symptoms and


           6   Mahoney is also incorrect that the BCNR did not
have the authority to uphold his discharge status solely on the
basis of his marijuana use, a decision which Mahoney maintains
effectively "altered the basis for [his] discharge ex post facto."
It   is  clear   from   the   record   that  Mahoney's   discharge
characterization at least in part resulted from his marijuana use:
Mahoney's discharge paperwork listed as one of the military
offenses leading to his separation his "wrongful use of a
controlled substance."    It is moreover apparent that the "drug
abuse" basis for Mahoney's discharge encompassed Mahoney's use of
marijuana; in an "Alcohol and Drug Abuse Screening Certificate"
signed by Mahoney during his enlistment, the Navy defined drug
abuse as "[a]ny illicit use or possession of drugs." The BCNR in
its decision letter acknowledged that Mahoney was administratively
separated both for misconduct due to drug abuse and a pattern of
misconduct,    but    determined     that   "either    basis    of
misconduct . . . supports discharge from the naval service with an
other than honorable characterization of service."            This
determination was "reasonable and reasonably explained."       See
Jackson v. Mabus, 808 F.3d 933, 936 (D.C. Cir. 2015).


                                   - 21 -
his use of marijuana.7 See Coburn v. Murphy, 827 F.3d 1122, 1126-27

(D.C. Cir. 2016) (affirming decision by Army Board for Correction

of Military Records because Board "examined the relevant data and

articulated a satisfactory explanation for its action including a

rational connection between the facts found and the choice made"

(quoting Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Ass'n v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins.

Co., 463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983))).

           We additionally reject Mahoney's argument that there was

insufficient support in the record for the BCNR's conclusion that

his account of the positive urinalysis was not credible.8            The BCNR

explained in its decision letter           that Mahoney had         failed to

"explain   how   a   'marijuana   joint'   landing     in   [his]   alcoholic

beverage   caused    [him]   to   ingest   marijuana    --   let    alone   in

sufficient quantity to test positive for THC at the level required

under Navy mass spectrometry analysis."9         The BCNR further noted


           7   The Hagel Memo instructs the Corrections Boards to
"exercise caution in weighing evidence of mitigation in all cases
of misconduct by carefully considering the likely causal
relationship of [PTSD] symptoms to the misconduct."

           8   Da Rosa v. Secretary of Health & Human Services,
803 F.2d 24, 26 (1st Cir. 1986), cited by Mahoney, in which the
court held that an administrative law judge's credibility finding
"must be supported by substantial evidence and the [judge] must
make specific findings as to the relevant evidence he considered
in determining to disbelieve the [applicant]," is therefore
inapposite, as the result here is supported by substantial
evidence.
          9    Mahoney   contends   that  "[p]ublicly   available
information    .    .    .    indicates   that    ingestion    of
marijuana -- including drinking marijuana tea -- can lead to a


                                  - 22 -
that Mahoney had been found guilty of wrongful drug use by a

preponderance of the evidence.

           We also find substantial evidence for the BCNR's factual

conclusion that "[a]t no         point d[id Mahoney] or any medical

professional attribute [his] NJP for wrongful drug use to self-

medication due to PTSD."        Mahoney maintained in the proceedings

before the BCNR that his ingestion of marijuana during service was

accidental, and he did not take the position that he intentionally

self-medicated with marijuana to alleviate his PTSD symptoms.

Nothing   in    Dr.   Dixon's   or   Dr.   Summers's   opinions   suggested

otherwise.

           Mahoney is also wrong that it was "unfair for the BCNR

to discredit [his] affidavit as not credible" while "denying him

the opportunity for a personal appearance" or to "supplement his

application with more information."10 The discharge notice Mahoney



positive urinalysis." However, Mahoney points to nothing in the
record to suggest that a positive urinalysis can result from
consumption of a beverage in which a "marijuana joint" has fallen.
Mahoney in his briefing cites an internet source which describes
the potency of "marijuana tea," but he does not argue that this
source was in the record and furthermore, Mahoney does not explain
how this source establishes the plausibility of his account, which
did not involve consumption of marijuana tea.

           10   The law imposes no such requirements on the BCNR.
See 32 C.F.R. § 723.4(a) ("In each case in which the Board
determines a hearing is warranted, [the] applicant will be entitled
to appear before the Board either in person or by counsel."); Burns
v. Marsh, 820 F.2d 1108, 1110 (9th Cir. 1987) (holding that whether
hearings are held under 10 U.S.C. § 1552(a) is at the discretion
of the Board).


                                     - 23 -
received expressly stated his discharge was "due to drug abuse and

pattern of misconduct."      Mahoney was on notice at the time he filed

his petition that it was his burden to "provide 'substantial

evidence' in order to overcome the [BCNR's] presumption that

'public officers,' including military officers, 'have properly

discharged their official duties.'" Roberts v. United States, 741

F.3d 152, 158 (D.C. Cir. 2014) (quoting 32 C.F.R. § 723.3(e)(2)).

Mahoney furthermore had the opportunity at the time of his petition

to put forth any evidence in support of his claim.           See 32 C.F.R.

§ 723.4(e)(1) ("It is the responsibility of the applicant to

procure such evidence not contained in the official records of the

Department of the Navy as he/she desires to present in support of

his/her case.").

           It is appropriate as we end this opinion to highlight

the   BCNR's   recognition    of   Mahoney's   commendable    efforts   to

rehabilitate himself in the years following his discharge.              We

affirm the district court's decision.




                                   - 24 -
