              FOR PUBLICATION

  UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
       FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

THOMAS JOSEPH POWELL;                No. 24-1899
BARRY D. ROMERIL;
CHRISTOPHER A. NOVINGER;
RAYMOND J. LUCIA;                    OPINION
MARGUERITE CASSANDRA
TOROIAN; GARY PRYOR;
JOSEPH COLLINS; REX SCATES;
MICHELLE SILVERSTEIN;
REASON FOUNDATION; CAPE
GAZETTE; NEW CIVIL
LIBERTIES ALLIANCE,

         Petitioners,

 v.

UNITED STATES SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION,

         Respondent.

      On Petition for Review of an Order of the
       Securities and Exchange Commission

      Argued and Submitted February 13, 2025
                Honolulu, Hawaii
2                        POWELL V. USSEC


                      Filed August 6, 2025

    Before: Sidney R. Thomas, Daniel A. Bress, and Ana de
                     Alba, Circuit Judges.

                    Opinion by Judge Bress


                          SUMMARY *


           Securities and Exchange Commission

    The panel denied a petition for review of the Securities
and Exchange Commission’s denial of a request to amend
SEC Rule 202.5(e), which reflects SEC policy that the
agency will not settle a civil enforcement action unless the
defendant agrees not to publicly deny the allegations against
him.
     The panel rejected petitioners’ facial-type challenge to
Rule 202.5(e) under the First Amendment. The panel
clarified that petitioners’ challenge before the court is that it
violates the First Amendment for civil enforcement
defendants to agree on a voluntary basis not to deny the
allegations against them in return for the SEC agreeing to
settle its securities law charges, with the limited remedy that,
if the defendant does later publicly deny the allegations, the
SEC may return to court.



*
 This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
                       POWELL V. USSEC                        3


    Applying the Supreme Court’s framework in Town of
Newton v. Rumery, 480 U.S. 386 (1987), for evaluating a
voluntary relinquishment of First Amendment rights, the
panel concluded that Rule 202.5(e) is not facially invalid
under the First Amendment, even though legitimate First
Amendment concerns could well arise in a more
particularized, as-applied type of challenge. Accordingly,
the panel upheld Rule 202.5(e) against the instant facial-type
First Amendment challenge, without prejudice to future
challenges on more particularized records.
    Finally, the panel rejected petitioners’ contention that the
SEC’s adoption of Rule 202.5(e) violated the Administrative
Procedure Act. The panel held that the SEC had statutory
authority to enact Rule 202.5(e), notice-and-comment
rulemaking was not required, and the SEC provided a
rational explanation for its determination not to amend Rule
202.5(e).



                         COUNSEL

Margaret A. Little (argued), Kara M. Rollins, Markham S.
Chenoweth, and Kaitlyn D. Schiraldi, New Civil Liberties
Alliance, Arlington, Virginia, for Petitioners.
Archith Ramkumar (argued), Appellate Counsel; Jeffrey A.
Berger, Assistant General Counsel; Michael A. Conley,
Solicitor; Megan Barbero, General Counsel; Securities &
Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C.; for Respondent.
Michael D. Pepson and Cynthia F. Crawford, Americans for
Prosperity Foundation, Arlington, Virginia; Joshua A.
House, Foundation for Individual Rights and Expression,
4                    POWELL V. USSEC


Washington, D.C.; for Amici Curiae Americans for
Prosperity Foundation, the Foundation for Individual Rights
and Expression, and Freedom of the Press Foundation.
Nathan J. Ristuccia, Institute for Free Speech, Washington,
D.C., for Amicus Curiae Institute for Free Speech.
Lawrence S. Ebner and Hannah S. Marcley, Atlantic Legal
Foundation, Washington, D.C., for Amicus Curiae Atlantic
Legal Foundation.
Adam E. Schulman, Hamilton Lincoln Law Institute,
Washington, D.C.; Ilya Shapiro and Tim Rosenberger,
Manhattan Institute, New York, New York; for Amici
Curiae Hamilton Lincoln Law Institute and Manhattan
Institute.
Thomas A. Berry, Brent Skorup, and Christopher D.
Barnewolt, Cato Institute, Washington, D.C., for Amicus
Curiae the Cato Institute.
Donald M. Falk and Eugene Volokh, Schaerr Jaffe LLP, San
Francisco, California; Gene C. Schaerr, Cristina M. Squiers,
and Aaron Gordon, Schaerr Jaffe LLP, Washington, D.C.;
Tyler S. Badgley and Mariel A. Brookins, United States
Chamber Litigation Center, Washington, D.C.; for Amicus
Curiae The Chamber of Commerce of the United States of
America.
Nicolas Morgan, Investor Choice Advocates Network, Los
Angeles, California; Devin Watkins, David McFadden, and
Dan Greenberg, Competitive Enterprise Institute,
Washington, D.C.; for Amicus Curiae Competitive
Enterprise Institute.
Reilly Stephens, Liberty Justice Center, Austin, Texas, for
Amicus Curiae Liberty Justice Center.
                      POWELL V. USSEC                       5


Joel S. Nolette and Michael J. Showalter, Wiley Rein LLP,
Washington, D.C.; David C. Tryon and Alex M. Certo, The
Buckeye Institute, Columbus, Ohio; for Amicus Curiae The
Buckeye Institute.
Angela L. Brown and Chris Davis, Gray Reed & McGraw
LLP, Dallas, Texas, for Amici Curiae Texas Blockchain
Council and AI Innovation Association.
Thomas Brejcha and B. Tyler Brooks, Thomas More
Society, Chicago, Illinois, for Amicus Curiae Thomas More
Society.



                         OPINION

BRESS, Circuit Judge:

    This is a petition for review of the Security and Exchange
Commission’s denial of a request to amend SEC Rule
202.5(e). See 17 C.F.R. § 202.5(e). That Rule reflects SEC
policy, in place since 1972, that the agency will not settle a
civil enforcement action with a defendant unless the
defendant agrees not to publicly deny the allegations against
him. If a defendant violates this provision of the settlement
agreement, the SEC’s remedy is to go back to the court that
entered the consent judgment and ask for the case to be
reopened. The petitioners claim Rule 202.5(e) violates the
First Amendment.
    We reject petitioners’ challenge, although we do so on
necessarily narrow grounds. This petition for review
amounts to a facial-type challenge to Rule 202.5(e), and
given longstanding precedent permitting the voluntary
waiver of constitutional rights, including First Amendment
6                    POWELL V. USSEC


rights, Rule 202.5(e) on its face is not per se
unconstitutional. Petitioners do validly argue that in
application, Rule 202.5(e) could impermissibly intrude on
First Amendment rights, especially if it prevents civil
enforcement defendants from criticizing the SEC. We do not
minimize petitioners’ concerns. But these concerns are
properly addressed in as-applied challenges with defined
records, whether during court approval of settlements, in a
pre-enforcement posture, or in response to the SEC seeking
to reopen a closed enforcement proceeding for an alleged
breach of a settlement agreement.
                             I
    The SEC investigates violations of the securities laws
and may bring enforcement actions in federal court. 15
U.S.C. § 78u(d)(1). Sometimes, the SEC insists that
defendants admit the allegations against them as a condition
of settlement. See, e.g., Press Release, SEC, JPMorgan
Admits to Widespread Recordkeeping Failures and Agrees
to Pay $125 Million Penalty to Resolve SEC Charges (Dec.
17,        2021),     https://www.sec.gov/newsroom/press-
releases/2021-262; Grubir S. Grewal, Director, SEC Div. of
Enf’t, Remarks at SEC Speaks 2021 (Oct. 13, 2021),
https://tinyurl.run/KderJu; Dina ElBoghdady, SEC to
Require Admissions of Guilt in Some Settlements, WASH.
POST, (June 18, 2013), https://tinyurl.run/E1As8b. In 1972,
the SEC announced that it would not settle civil enforcement
actions unless defendants, at minimum, agree not to publicly
deny the Commission’s allegations. Consent Decrees in
Judicial or Administrative Proceedings, 37 Fed. Reg. 25,224
                      POWELL V. USSEC                      7


(Nov. 29, 1972). Codified at 17 C.F.R. § 202.5(e), the
SEC’s settlement policy is as follows:

       The Commission has adopted the policy that
       in any civil lawsuit brought by it or in any
       administrative proceeding of an accusatory
       nature pending before it, it is important to
       avoid creating, or permitting to be created, an
       impression that a decree is being entered or a
       sanction imposed, when the conduct alleged
       did not, in fact, occur. Accordingly, it hereby
       announces its policy not to permit a
       defendant or respondent to consent to a
       judgment or order that imposes a sanction
       while denying the allegations in the
       complaint or order for proceedings. In this
       regard, the Commission believes that a
       refusal to admit the allegations is equivalent
       to a denial, unless the defendant or
       respondent states that he neither admits nor
       denies the allegations.

The SEC refers to this as the “no-deny provision” or the “no-
admit, no-deny policy.” The petitioners call it the “gag
rule.” We will refer to it as Rule 202.5(e), or “the Rule.”
    Neither the SEC nor Rule 202.5(e) mandate settlement.
But in practice, the vast majority of civil enforcement
defendants choose to settle with the SEC. If a defendant
wishes to settle, he must acknowledge that his settlement is
voluntary and agree to abide by Rule 202.5(e). Once a
settlement is negotiated, the defendant signs a consent
provision which typically says, among other things, that
“Defendant understands and agrees to comply with the terms
8                      POWELL V. USSEC


of 17 C.F.R. § 202.5(e).” Where the SEC has filed an action
in federal court, the settlement is incorporated into a final
consent judgment, entered by the court. Compliance with
Rule 202.5(e) does not prevent defendants from denying the
allegations in other legal proceedings, such as separate civil
litigation.
    When settling with the SEC, defendants agree to waive
various rights. Many consent judgments provide, consistent
with Rule 202.5(e), that the defendant neither admits nor
denies the SEC’s allegations. If a defendant breaches the
Rule 202.5(e) component of the consent judgment, the
SEC’s remedy is to petition the issuing court to vacate the
final judgment and restore the case to its active docket. But
the court may also deny this requested relief.
    On October 30, 2018, the New Civil Liberties Alliance
(NCLA) filed a petition requesting that the SEC amend Rule
202.5(e). Citing First Amendment concerns, the NCLA
suggested that the SEC eliminate the language preventing a
defendant from denying the SEC’s allegations against him.
This proposed change, as the SEC later described it, would
“allow defendants to consent to a judgment while denying
the allegations[,] with no recourse for the Commission to
return to active litigation.”
    The SEC did not respond to the petition to amend for
over five years. On December 20, 2023, the NCLA filed a
renewed petition, adding various individuals as petitioners.
On January 30, 2024, the SEC denied the petition to amend,
providing a six-page letter ruling explaining why it was
maintaining its policy. According to the SEC, Rule 202.5(e)
“preserves its ability to seek findings of fact and conclusions
of law if a defendant, after agreeing to a settlement, chooses
to publicly deny the allegations.” In the SEC’s view, and
                       POWELL V. USSEC                       9


because it “does not try its cases through press releases,” the
agency is “not required to choose a path whereby it waives
its right to try a case while the defendant is free to publicly
deny the allegations without any real ability for the
Commission to respond in court.” The SEC further rejected
petitioners’ First Amendment objections, explaining that
“[t]here is a large body of precedent confirming that a
defendant can waive constitutional rights as part of a civil
settlement, just as a criminal defendant can waive
constitutional rights as part of a plea bargain.”
    SEC Commissioner Hester Peirce dissented from the
Commission’s denial of the petition to amend Rule 202.5(e).
She concluded that “[t]he policy of denying defendants the
right to criticize publicly a settlement after it is signed is
unnecessary, undermines regulatory integrity, and raises
First Amendment concerns.” In Commissioner Peirce’s
view, there is “scant factual basis” for the SEC needing Rule
202.5(e), and if the SEC has concerns about defendants
speaking out, this policy is “not the right way to protect the
Commission’s reputation.”
    After the SEC denied the petition to amend, twelve
petitioners challenged the SEC’s denial by filing a petition
for review in this court. Nine of the petitioners are
individuals, eight of whom entered settlements containing
the Rule 202.5(e) obligation.        The remaining three
petitioners are organizations and entities. Petitioners
challenge the Rule on its face, claiming that it violates the
First Amendment. They also contend that the Rule was
adopted in violation of the Administrative Procedure Act
(APA).
   We have jurisdiction under 15 U.S.C. § 78y(a)(1), which
permits “[a] person aggrieved by a final order of the
10                     POWELL V. USSEC


Commission . . . [to] obtain review of the order in the United
States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which he resides”
or the D.C. Circuit. Although the SEC claims that many of
the petitioners lack standing or fail to meet the jurisdictional
prerequisites of § 78y(a)(1), the agency agrees that one
petitioner, Raymond Lucia, can maintain this petition. Our
independent review confirms the same.
    The SEC charged Lucia with securities law violations in
2012, and he agreed to a settlement that requires him to abide
by Rule 202.5(e). Lucia resides in the Ninth Circuit, and he
joined the NCLA when it renewed its petition to amend.
Under all these circumstances, Lucia was “aggrieved by” the
SEC’s denial of the request to amend Rule 202.5(e). 15
U.S.C. § 78y(a)(1). Because “[o]nly one of the petitioners
needs to have standing to permit us to consider the petition
for review,” Massachusetts v. EPA, 549 U.S. 497, 518
(2007), and Lucia fits that bill, we proceed to the merits. Cf.
Nat’l Family Farm Coal. v. EPA, 966 F.3d 893, 907 n.2 (9th
Cir. 2020) (“[R]egardless whether venue is improper as to
three of the six . . . Petitioners, we can address the merits of
the . . . petition.”).
                               II
    SEC Rule 202.5(e) has been in place for over five
decades, much of that time seemingly without great fanfare.
The record gives no indication that the SEC regularly returns
to court to reopen judgments for claimed violations of Rule
202.5(e). The SEC also represented at oral argument that it
is unaware of a court ever finding a defendant in contempt
for violating a Rule 202.5(e) provision in a settlement
agreement. Even so, in more recent years, Rule 202.5(e) has
been the subject of criticism. The criticism is not necessarily
uniform.
                       POWELL V. USSEC                      11


    Some have suggested that Rule 202.5(e) goes too easy
on civil enforcement defendants, in that it allows defendants
to neither admit nor deny the SEC’s allegations. Civil
enforcement defendants presumably prefer “neither admit
nor deny” over “admit,” to prevent their settlements with the
SEC from creating admissions that could later be used
against them in private securities litigation. Yet some critics
of Rule 202.5(e) would prefer the SEC to more frequently
require admissions of wrongdoing as a condition of
settlement, in the interest of greater securities law
enforcement and public accountability. See, e.g., SEC v.
Citigroup Glob. Markets Inc., 827 F. Supp. 2d 328, 332–35
(S.D.N.Y. 2011) (concluding that a consent decree that did
not require the defendant to admit the SEC’s allegations was
“neither fair, nor reasonable, nor adequate, nor in the public
interest”), vacated and remanded, 752 F.3d 285 (2d Cir.
2014); James B. Stewart, S.E.C. Has a Message for Firms
Not Used to Admitting Guilt, N.Y. TIMES, (June 21, 2013),
https://tinyurl.run/3p3JHF; Grewal, Remarks at SEC Speaks
2021.
    Coming at it from the other direction are those who
believe that SEC Rule 202.5(e) is too heavy-handed.
Motivated by concerns about administrative agency power
generally, and the SEC’s enforcement powers more
specifically, these critics have argued that by preventing
civil enforcement defendants from publicly denying the
allegations against them as a condition of settlement, Rule
202.5(e) contradicts First Amendment values. See, e.g.,
Rodney A. Smolla, Why the SEC Gag Rule Silencing Those
Who Settle SEC Investigations Violates the First
Amendment, 29 WIDENER L. REV. 1 (2023); Aaron Gordon,
Imposing Silence Through Settlement: A First-Amendment
Case Study of the New York Attorney General, 84 ALB. L.
12                    POWELL V. USSEC


REV. 335 (2021); James Valvo, Notice & Comment, The
CFTC and SEC Are Demanding Unconstitutional Speech
Bans in Their Settlement Agreements, YALE J. ON REG.
(Dec. 4, 2017); see also SEC v. Novinger, 40 F.4th 297, 308
(5th Cir. 2022) (Jones, J., concurring); SEC v. Moraes, No.
22-cv-8343, 2022 WL 15774011, at *3–5 (S.D.N.Y. Oct. 28,
2022). The petitioners in this case, supported by various
amici, take up this First Amendment mantle.
     But as is often true when a problem of many dimensions
is presented to a court, we are hemmed in by certain
constraints inherent in judicial decision-making, including
those arising from the type of challenge brought before us.
It is not our role to second-guess the SEC’s policy decisions
or enforcement priorities. SEC Commissioner Peirce and
others have challenged the wisdom of Rule 202.5(e), but the
wisdom of regulatory policy lies outside our authority. Nor
is it within our authority to decide what rules would most
promote public confidence in the SEC.
    Deciding whether an agency action violates the First
Amendment is, of course, very much within our authority.
But the challenge before us is a petition for review of the
SEC’s denial of a request to amend Rule 202.5(e). The
petition does not seek relief as to any one civil enforcement
defendant based on his or her facts and circumstances, the
language of any particular consent judgment, or the
threatened actions of the SEC as to that defendant. The
petition for review instead maintains that Rule 202.5(e) is
per se unconstitutional, that is, unconstitutional across the
board. In this sense, the petition is properly analyzed as a
facial challenge.     For facial challenges in the First
Amendment context, we ask “whether ‘a substantial number
of [the Rule’s] applications are unconstitutional, judged in
relation to the [Rule’s] plainly legitimate sweep.’” Moody
                       POWELL V. USSEC                      13


v. NetChoice, LLC, 603 U.S. 707, 723 (2024) (quoting
Americans for Prosperity Found. v. Bonta, 594 U.S. 595,
615 (2021)); see also, e.g., NetChoice, LLC v. Bonta, 113
F.4th 1101, 1115 (9th Cir. 2024).
    Petitioners rightly point out that we should be concerned
about any effort by the government to limit criticism of the
government, including criticism offered by those whom the
SEC claims violated the law. Those that the SEC has
charged with securities law violations may have a
particularly valuable perspective on government
enforcement efforts, or at least one that is entitled to be
considered in the marketplace of ideas. If the SEC utilized
Rule 202.5(e) to prevent criticism of the agency, its officers,
or its enforcement programs, the Rule would likely raise
substantial First Amendment concerns in application. But
what we have before us is a more discrete and stylized
challenge, namely, that it assertedly violates the First
Amendment for civil enforcement defendants to agree on a
voluntary basis not to deny the allegations against them in
return for the SEC agreeing to settle its securities law
charges, with the limited remedy that, if the defendant does
later publicly deny the allegations, the SEC may return to
court with no guarantee that a court will reopen the case.
    The law has long regarded the voluntary relinquishment
of constitutional rights as permissible, so long as appropriate
safeguards are attached. And when we apply the Supreme
Court’s and our court’s framework for the voluntary waiver
of rights, we conclude that Rule 202.5(e) is not facially
invalid under the First Amendment, even though legitimate
First Amendment concerns could well arise in a more
particularized type of challenge.
14                     POWELL V. USSEC


                              III
                               A
    The starting point for our analysis is that Rule 202.5(e)
cannot be abstracted from the circumstances that bring the
Rule into effect, namely, a defendant’s voluntary decision to
settle with the SEC and his voluntary agreement to abide by
the Rule’s requirements. Rule 202.5(e) is not simply a
speech-restricting rule, but a rule that defendants voluntarily
accede to in return for substantial benefits.
    In proper circumstances, rights, including constitutional
rights, can be waived. There is a “background presumption
that legal rights generally . . . are subject to waiver by
voluntary agreement of the parties.” United States v.
Mezzanatto, 513 U.S. 196, 203 (1995). Indeed, “‘in the
context of a broad array of constitutional and statutory
provisions,’” the Supreme Court has “articulated a general
rule that presumes the availability of waiver.” New York v.
Hill, 528 U.S. 110, 114 (2000) (quoting Mezzanatto, 513
U.S. at 201). And when a party by agreement has “waived
his right to litigate the issues raised, a right guaranteed to
him by the Due Process Clause, the conditions upon which
he has given that waiver must be respected.” United States
v. Armour & Co., 402 U.S. 673, 682 (1971).
    We frequently see these waivers of rights in the criminal
context, especially for guilty pleas. A defendant “may
knowingly and voluntarily waive many of the most
fundamental protections afforded by the Constitution,”
including the right to a jury trial, the right to confront one’s
accusers, and so on. Mezzanato, 513 U.S. at 201 (citing
Ricketts v. Adamson, 483 U.S. 1, 10 (1987); Boykin v.
Alabama, 395 U.S. 238, 243 (1969); Johnson v. Zerbst, 304
U.S. 458, 465 (1938)). Criminal suspects may likewise
                      POWELL V. USSEC                      15


waive their right to remain silent and their right to counsel,
so long as they have been properly informed of those rights.
See, e.g., Davis v. United States, 512 U.S. 452, 458, 460
(1994). As the Supreme Court has explained, “[a]lthough a
defendant may have a right, even of constitutional
dimensions, to follow whichever course he chooses, the
Constitution does not by that token always forbid requiring
him to choose.” Corbitt v. New Jersey, 439 U.S. 212, 218
n.8 (1978) (quoting McGautha v. California, 402 U.S. 183,
213 (1971)).
    Although there are limitations on the waiver of First
Amendment rights—just as there are limitations and
protections associated with the waiver of other rights—First
Amendment rights can be waived. “The Supreme Court has
held that First Amendment rights may be waived upon clear
and convincing evidence that the waiver is knowing,
voluntary[,] and intelligent.” Leonard v. Clark, 12 F.3d 885,
889 (9th Cir. 1993) (citing D.H. Overmyer Co. v. Frick Co.,
405 U.S. 174, 185, 187 (1972)); see also, e.g., SEC v.
Romeril, 15 F.4th 166, 172 (2d Cir. 2021) (“[P]arties can
waive their First Amendment rights in consent decrees and
other settlements of judicial proceedings.”); Lake James
Cmty. Volunteer Fire Dep’t v. Burke Cnty., N.C., 149 F.3d
277, 280 (4th Cir. 1998); Paragould Cablevision, Inc. v. City
of Paragould, 930 F.2d 1310, 1315 (8th Cir. 1991); Erie
Telecomms., Inc. v. City of Erie, 853 F.2d 1084, 1099 (3d
Cir. 1988) (“[W]e know of no doctrine . . . providing a per
se rule that constitutional claims, even [F]irst [A]mendment
claims, may not be waived.”); Kausal v. George F. Nord
Bldg. Corp. (In re George F. Nord Bldg. Corp.), 129 F.2d
173, 176 (7th Cir. 1942).
    Although we do not typically think of it in these terms, a
guilty plea effects a certain inevitable infringement of First
16                    POWELL V. USSEC


Amendment rights, in that a criminal defendant agrees to say
something about his guilt in return for a substantial benefit.
Guilty pleas can also include provisions precluding the right
to appeal—a form of First Amendment petitioning activity.
See, e.g., United States v. Wells, 29 F.4th 580, 585 (9th Cir.
2022). And pleading guilty to a crime can result in even
further First Amendment infringements, considering that a
guilty plea can lead to imprisonment, and in prison First
Amendment rights are reduced. See, e.g., Shaw v. Murphy,
532 U.S. 223, 229 (2001); Turner v. Safley, 482 U.S. 78, 89–
91 (1987).
    We encounter waivers of the right to speak outside of the
criminal context, as well. Government employees can agree
to restrictions on their First Amendment rights as a condition
of employment. See, e.g., Snepp v. United States, 444 U.S.
507, 509 & n.3 (1980) (per curiam) (explaining that although
“Snepp relies primarily on the claim that his agreement is
unenforceable as a prior restraint on protected speech,”
“[w]hen Snepp accepted employment with the CIA, he
voluntarily signed the agreement that expressly obligated
him to submit any proposed publication for prior review”).
Judicially     enforceable      non-disclosure   and     non-
disparagement agreements are commonplace. See Cohen v.
Cowles Media Co., 501 U.S. 663, 665, 672 (1991); Wright
v. Eugene & Agnes E. Meyer Found., 68 F.4th 612, 621–22
(D.C. Cir. 2023); Infogroup, Inc. v. DatabaseLLC, 956 F.3d
1063, 1068 (8th Cir. 2020). And public sector employees
who are not union members can agree to pay fees to a public
sector union, thereby “waiving their First Amendment
rights.” Janus v. American Fed’n of State, Cnty., & Mun.
Emps. Council 31, 585 U.S. 878, 930 (2018). No doubt there
are other examples.
                      POWELL V. USSEC                      17


    Our court and other circuits have held that a waiver of
First Amendment rights should be analyzed under the
Supreme Court’s decision in Town of Newton v. Rumery, 480
U.S. 386 (1987). See Leonard, 12 F.3d at 890; Davies v.
Grossmont Union High Sch. Dist., 930 F.2d 1390, 1396–97
(9th Cir. 1991); Lake James, 149 F.3d at 280; Erie
Telecomms., 853 F.2d at 1099.
    In Rumery, the Supreme Court upheld an agreement in
which a defendant released his right to bring a civil rights
action under 42 U.S.C. § 1983 in exchange for the
prosecutor dismissing pending criminal charges against him.
480 U.S. at 389, 398. Observing that “it is well settled that
plea bargaining does not violate the Constitution even
though a guilty plea waives important constitutional rights,”
Rumery declined to establish “a per se rule of invalidity” for
all waiver agreements. Id. at 393, 395. In “many cases,” the
Supreme Court explained, a defendant’s “choice to enter”
into a waiver agreement “will reflect a highly rational
judgment that the certain benefits” of ending the litigation
exceed the benefits of what he is giving up. Id. at 394. And
that a waiver of rights could be “coercive” in some cases did
not “justify invalidating all such agreements.” Id. at 393;
see also id. (“We see no reason to believe that release-
dismissal agreements pose a more coercive choice than other
situations we have accepted.”).
    Accordingly, Rumery held that in this context, “a
promise is unenforceable if the interest in its enforcement is
outweighed in the circumstances by a public policy harmed
by enforcement of the agreement.” Id. at 392; see also id. at
392 n.2 (“The threshold question is whether compelling a
defendant to decide whether to waive constitutional rights
impairs to an appreciable extent any of the policies behind
the rights involved.”) (brackets omitted) (quoting
18                    POWELL V. USSEC


McGautha, 402 U.S. at 213). In Rumery’s case, he
“voluntarily entered the agreement,” and “enforcement of
this agreement would not adversely affect the relevant public
interests.” Id. at 398. The Supreme Court thus recognized
that the waiver of rights can be permissible, even when they
force parties to make “difficult choices.” Id. at 393.
    We have applied Rumery in two key First Amendment
cases: Leonard v. Clark, 12 F.3d 885 (9th Cir. 1993), and
Davies v. Grossmont Union High Sch. Dist., 930 F.2d 1390
(9th Cir. 1991). In Leonard, we upheld a provision in a
collective bargaining agreement, referred to as Article V,
that required a public employee union to bear the costs of
any new economic or benefit improvement endorsed or
sponsored by the Union that caused “increased payroll costs”
to the municipality. 12 F.3d at 886. The contractual
language was originally proposed by the Union and then
included in successive collective bargaining agreements. Id.
    We first determined that the Union’s waiver of “the full
and unrestricted exercise of its First Amendment rights” in
the collective bargaining agreement was “knowing,
voluntary[,] and intelligent.” Id. at 889–90. Although the
Union informed the city during contract negotiations that
Article V was unconstitutional, this objection did not make
“the Union’s execution of the agreement any less voluntary.”
Id. at 890. Indeed, we explained, “[i]f the Union felt that
First Amendment rights were burdened by Article V, it
should not have bargained them away and signed the
agreement.” Id.
    Because Rumery nominally involved the waiver of
a “statutory remedy,” Davies, discussed below, had earlier
left open the possibility that “a stricter rule” may be
appropriate in cases involving waivers of constitutional
                       POWELL V. USSEC                       19


rights, 930 F.2d at 1397 (emphasis omitted). But Leonard
applied the Rumery framework and expressly “decline[d] to
adopt a stricter standard” in the constitutional context. 12
F.3d at 891 n.8. Under a Rumery analysis, we identified in
Leonard two policies supporting enforcement of the waiver
at issue: the “public interest in the stability and finality of
collective bargaining agreements,” and the “public interest
in the finality of a compensation package between a city and
a group of its employees.” Id. at 891. But we also recognized
the “public interest in the Union’s unfettered ability to
present its views to the state legislature.” Id.
    In upholding the waiver of presumed First Amendment
rights, we found it significant that Article V of the collective
bargaining agreement did “not ban all Union speech” and
was “narrowly tailored to achieve the City’s goal of
budgetary predictability.” Id. There was also a sufficient
nexus between the “dispute resolved in the” collective
bargaining agreement and the restriction placed on the
Union’s First Amendment rights. Id. at 891 n.10. And
“[e]ven in those areas affected by Article V,” the Union
could “endorse benefit-increasing legislation if it fe[lt] that
the benefits to be gained by passage of the bill [we]re more
valuable than the salary foregone.” Id. at 892. Accordingly,
“[b]ecause Article V [wa]s a relatively narrow limitation on
the Union’s political speech,” we could not “find that the
public policy in favor of the Union’s completely unfettered
freedom of expression outweigh[ed] the public interests in
the finality of collective bargaining and the predictability of
municipal budgets.” Id. The Union’s constitutional
arguments were relevant to our analysis, but they could not
by themselves invalidate the waiver, because “[i]f
constitutional arguments always outweighed ones grounded
in other sources of law, then we could never enforce
20                     POWELL V. USSEC


individuals’ waivers of their constitutional rights, an
outcome that would fly in the face of a long line of Supreme
Court precedent.” Id. at 892 n.12.
    We applied the same Rumery methodology in Davies,
although there we concluded that the waiver was invalid.
930 F.2d at 1392. Davies and his spouse, a teacher, sued the
school district over a dispute relating to the spouse’s
employment. The parties settled. In exchange for monetary
compensation, Davies and his spouse agreed not to seek
employment or office within the district. Id. Davies later
won an election for a seat on the district’s board, and the
district sought to enforce the settlement agreement, which
would result in Davies’s removal from public office. Id. at
1392–93. The district court granted the school district’s
motion to enforce the settlement and ordered Davies to
resign his office immediately. Id. at 1393.
     Applying the Rumery framework, we held that “the
public policy favoring enforcement” of the contractual
provision preventing Davies from running for office was
“outweighed by the public policy served by its non-
enforcement.” Id. at 1392. The interest in non-enforcement
was “of the highest order,” “involv[ing] the most important
political right in a democratic system of government: the
right of the people to elect representatives of their own
choosing to public office.” Id. at 1397. This interest was “of
critical importance” because the contractual provision not
only prevented Davies from running for office but also
“result[ed] in a limitation on the fundamental right to vote of
every resident” in the district. Id. at 1398. The school
district’s interests in enforcement of the provision,
meanwhile, were insufficient. Besides the general interest
in settling litigation that would be present in every case, the
district claimed that Davies’s presence on the board would
                      POWELL V. USSEC                      21


be detrimental to the district, a “startling” and “pernicious”
rationale that reflected “a serious abuse of the power of
incumbency.” Id. at 1398–99.
     The contractual provision preventing Davies from
running for office was further impermissible because it
lacked a sufficient connection to the underlying employment
dispute that was the subject of the earlier settlement. We
explained that “[b]efore the government can require a citizen
to surrender a constitutional right as part of a settlement or
other contract, it must have a legitimate reason for including
the waiver in the particular agreement.” Id. at 1399. And
“[a] legitimate reason will almost always include a close
nexus—a tight fit—between the specific interest the
government seeks to advance in the dispute underlying the
litigation involved and the specific right waived.” Id. In
Davies’s case, “the nexus between the individual right
waived and the dispute that was resolved by the settlement
agreement [was] not a close one” because “[t]he underlying
dispute had little connection with Dr. Davies’ potential
future service on the Board.” Id.
    Cases from other circuits have also relied on Rumery
when analyzing waivers of First Amendment rights. In SEC
v. Romeril, 15 F.4th 166 (2d Cir. 2021), cert. denied sub
nom. Romeril v. SEC, 142 S. Ct. 2836 (2022), the Second
Circuit cited Rumery in rejecting a challenge to the same
SEC Rule at issue here. In Romeril, one of the same
petitioners in this case sought relief from his consent decree
under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 60(b)(4). Id. at 170.
The Second Circuit held that Romeril’s consent judgment
“d[id] not violate the First Amendment because Romeril
waived his right to publicly deny the allegations of the
complaint.” Id. at 172. Observing that “parties can waive
their First Amendment rights in consent decrees and other
22                     POWELL V. USSEC


settlements of judicial proceedings,” the Second Circuit saw
no issue with Romeril’s agreement: “A defendant who is
insistent on retaining the right to publicly deny the
allegations against him has the right to litigate and defend
against the charges. Romeril elected not to litigate.” Id.
    Because SEC Rule 202.5(e) involves the waiver of rights
by agreement, Rumery and the above precedents provide the
proper legal framework for evaluating this petition for
review. For that reason, we disagree with petitioners that
Rule 202.5(e) should be analyzed as a traditional prior
restraint or content-based restriction on speech, because
every waiver of First Amendment rights can in some sense
be described as a content-based prior restraint. We likewise
disagree with petitioners that we can apply other First
Amendment doctrines, like the compelled speech doctrine,
without regard to the fact that the speech restriction here
arises from a voluntary agreement. Although the nature of
the agreed-upon speech restriction is central to the Rumery
analysis, precedent directs that the Rumery framework is the
proper one for evaluating a voluntary relinquishment of First
Amendment rights.
                              B
   Under the Rumery framework and our precedents, the
specific challenge before us fails, although as we noted
above, our decision is necessarily limited in nature.
    To the extent the petitioners claim that Rumery cannot
apply because defendants do not voluntarily agree to Rule
202.5(e), we disagree, at least as to the facial-type challenge
presented to us. There is no basis to conclude that as to all
or a substantial number of SEC defendants, their agreement
to abide by Rule 202.5(e) is not “voluntary, knowing[,] and
intelligent.” Davies, 930 F.2d at 1394. Though the plaintiffs
                       POWELL V. USSEC                      23


assert that the SEC possesses outsized power, frequently
settles its cases, and makes defendants’ agreement to Rule
202.5(e) non-negotiable, the record also reflects that
defendants in SEC enforcement actions are often
sophisticated players who are represented by counsel. And
ultimately, the defendants in these cases chose to settle with
the SEC rather than litigate further. See Leonard, 12 F.3d at
890 (“If the Union felt that First Amendment rights were
burdened by Article V, it should not have bargained them
away and signed the agreement.”).
    We do not foreclose an individual defendant in any
particular case from later claiming that his agreement to the
terms of Rule 202.5(e) was involuntary or unknowing. But
we also cannot say that generalized concerns about the
SEC’s powers or enforcement tactics justify a blanket
conclusion that these agreements are always or very often
improperly coercive. See Rumery, 480 U.S. at 393
(concluding that the “possibility” that “some release-
dismissal agreements may not be the product of an informed
and voluntary decision” given the “risk, publicity, and
expense of a criminal trial” did not “justify invalidating all
such agreements”).
    Nor is Rule 202.5(e) facially invalid under the Rumery
framework. Per Rule 202.5(e), a defendant who settles with
the SEC may not publicly deny the SEC’s allegations, and,
if he does, the SEC may seek to reopen his case in order to
proceed to litigation. The Rule in its purest form allows the
SEC to return things to how they were before the settlement,
potentially allowing the SEC to pursue its claims in court. It
is as if the civil enforcement action remains subject to
reopening at the defendant’s election. Rule 202.5(e)
essentially tells defendants that if they come to disagree with
their original decision not to publicly deny the SEC’s
24                     POWELL V. USSEC


allegations, they may later have to defend against them. In
this sense, there is a “close nexus” between “the specific
interest the government seeks to advance in the dispute
underlying the litigation involved”—proving the allegations
supporting its enforcement actions—and “the specific right
waived”—the defendant agreeing not to deny those same
allegations. Davies, 930 F.2d at 1399. This is a far cry from
a case like Davies, in which the restriction on Davies’s
ability to run for public office “had little connection” to the
underlying settlement agreement. Id.
     Indeed, the situation in the case before us is not so
dissimilar from Rumery itself. In Rumery, “the criminal
charges that had been filed against Rumery and Rumery’s
civil suit against the prosecutor involved the same incident.”
Id. (italics omitted). “In fact,” as we later described it, “they
were opposite sides of the coin.” Id. “The two actions
reflected the opposing parties’ differing versions of what
actually occurred,” and “a full compromise of the dispute
between the parties necessitated resolving both matters.” Id.
     Analogous in this respect to Rumery, any defendant who
wishes to publicly deny the SEC’s allegations wants to tell a
different version of the story than the one reflected in his
voluntarily entered settlement agreement. But instead of
restricting an offsetting suit, as in Rumery, Rule 202.5(e)
uses a different mechanism. It gives the defendant a choice:
agree to “a full compromise of the dispute,” id., by declining
to deny the SEC’s version of what occurred, or speak out
against the SEC’s allegations and permit the SEC to attempt
to litigate the facts in the same (reopened) case. This further
confirms the closeness of the nexus between the
government’s interest and the right waived.
                       POWELL V. USSEC                      25


     We also cannot say that the SEC’s interest in Rule
202.5(e) is wholly illegitimate, to the point that the Rule
should be struck down entirely on a petition for review. The
SEC’s interests are not so much weaker than the asserted
interests we found sufficient in Leonard. See 12 F.3d at 891.
And they do not compare to the “utterly unpersuasive” and
“pernicious” anti-democratic justifications that we rejected
in Davies. See 930 F.2d at 1398. The SEC explains that if
it is to forego its decision to present evidence in court, the
agency should have the opportunity to pursue that path if a
defendant later decides to deny the SEC’s allegations
publicly. Accordingly, and because it does not “try its cases
through press releases,” the SEC maintains that its policy
“preserves its ability to seek findings of fact and conclusions
of law if a defendant, after agreeing to a settlement, chooses
to publicly deny the allegations.”
    The SEC has some interest in determining how to try its
cases and prove its allegations, and in deciding upon
settlement terms that are most consistent with its preferred
enforcement strategy. The SEC also has a related interest in
offering defendants different options for addressing the
SEC’s allegations. The absence of a policy like Rule
202.5(e) could lead the SEC to requiring more outright
admissions or settling fewer cases, which may not
necessarily be in the interest of civil enforcement
defendants. See Rumery, 480 U.S. at 394 (explaining that
defendants’ choice to waive rights in a settlement agreement
can “reflect a highly rational judgment” about the benefits of
avoiding prosecution); Romeril, 15 F.4th at 172. Provided
that any limitation on speech remains within proper bounds,
and given the background ability to waive First Amendment
rights at least to some extent, the SEC has an interest in
26                     POWELL V. USSEC


giving defendants the option to agree to a speech restriction
as part of a broader settlement agreement.
     However, to the extent the SEC’s letter addressing
NCLA’s request to amend Rule 202.5(e) advances the
broader rationale that it is necessary to silence defendants in
order to promote public confidence in the SEC’s work, this
rationale would be improper. “‘[W]hatever differences may
exist about interpretations of the First Amendment, there is
practically universal agreement’ that it was adopted in part
to ‘protect the free discussion of governmental affairs.’”
Houston Cmty. Coll. Sys. v. Wilson, 595 U.S. 468, 478
(2022) (quoting Mills v. Alabama, 384 U.S. 214, 218
(1966)). A defendant who denies the SEC’s allegations may
well undermine confidence in the SEC’s enforcement
programs. But undermining confidence in the government
is an inevitable result of our robust First Amendment
protections for speech critical of the government. The SEC’s
valid interest in Rule 202.5(e) is thus more mechanical: that
if a defendant wants to deny the allegations, the SEC wants
to be able to prove those allegations in a particular forum,
i.e., in court, with the benefits and protections of the judicial
process.
    At the same time, the SEC’s interests are not so
compelling that they would justify a broad restriction on
speech, either. In this case, and critical to our Rumery
analysis, is the fact that, on its face, SEC Rule 202.5(e) “is a
relatively narrow limitation” on defendants’ speech.
Leonard, 12 F.3d at 891. By its terms, Rule 202.5(e) creates
consequences for defendants only when they publicly deny
the SEC’s allegations. The Rule on its face sweeps no
further than speech denying the allegations. And, critically,
the consequence for violating the Rule is not speech
suppression or the automatic undoing of the settlement
                       POWELL V. USSEC                      27


agreement, but only that the SEC may seek to reopen the
civil enforcement proceedings—which would in turn require
a court to agree to that request, including over and above any
First Amendment objections that the defendant could
interpose at that time. See Rumery, 480 U.S. at 401
(O’Connor, J., concurring in part and concurring in the
judgment) (noting that “judicial supervision” creates “an
important check against abuse” of voluntary agreements to
waive rights). “Even in those areas affected by” Rule
202.5(e), defendants can later decide to deny the allegations
against them “if [they] feel[] that the benefits to be gained
. . . are more valuable than the [settlement] foregone,” or,
that is, potentially foregone, because a court must still agree
to the SEC’s request to reopen. Leonard, 12 F.3d at 892.
    Although the SEC’s asserted interest in Rule 202.5(e) is
limited, the face of the Rule only imposes a limited speech
restriction. And the remedy for a violation of Rule 202.5(e)
is also limited, requiring court sign-off that, if granted,
merely puts the parties back in the position they were in
before the settlement. The result is that a defendant who
agrees to a Rule 202.5(e) settlement faces the prospect of
reopened proceedings, but he may conclude that agreeing to
the SEC’s allegations or litigating instead of settling are
inferior options. We do not think the First Amendment
forecloses the SEC from giving defendants the optionality
reflected in Rule 202.5(e). On this basis, we narrowly reject
petitioners’ facial-type challenge.
    We caution, however, that further restrictions on
defendants’ speech would require a different analysis under
Rumery.     The SEC assures us in its briefing that
“[d]efendants who enter into settlements with the
Commission remain free to speak about the Commission,
enforcement actions, and a host of other topics so long as
28                    POWELL V. USSEC


they do not publicly deny the Commission’s allegations.”
Defendants who have settled with the SEC should therefore
understand that they have full latitude in this regard,
including when it comes to criticizing the SEC. At the same
time, we question how easy the SEC’s line will be to police
in practice, should the SEC ever seek to enforce Rule
202.5(e). Our decision today resolves only whether an
agreement allowing the SEC to seek to reopen proceedings
upon a defendant’s bare denial of allegations violates the
First Amendment. And on that understanding of Rule
202.5(e), the Rule is not unconstitutionally vague, either.
See FCC v. Fox Television Stations, Inc., 567 U.S. 239, 253
(2012) (explaining that laws “must give fair notice of
conduct that is forbidden or required”). But any broader rule
would present different issues.
    In this regard, we note evidence in the record of
settlement agreements that could be read to sweep more
broadly than Rule 202.5(e) itself. For example, we are
informed that defendants agree not to make “any public
statement denying, directly or indirectly, any allegation in
the complaint or creating the impression that the complaint
is without factual basis.” (Emphasis added). Defendants also
agree not to “permit” such statements to be made, an
obligation that could be understood to extend to the speech
of others.
    No specific settlement agreement is before us in this
petition for review. But insofar as the SEC’s settlement
agreements impose greater obligations than the face of Rule
202.5(e) itself, today’s decision—which concerns the denial
of a petition to amend Rule 202.5(e) itself—does not resolve
whether such a settlement agreement could survive a Rumery
or vagueness challenge.          Courts considering such
settlements may take up these questions in appropriate cases,
                      POWELL V. USSEC                      29


whether when entering consent judgments or entertaining
requests for relief from them. If defendants raise such
challenges, courts should carefully consider them, mindful
of the important values associated with permitting criticism
of the government. Nor do we decide if it would be
constitutional for the facial restrictions in Rule 202.5(e) to
apply in perpetuity. It stands to reason that under a Rumery
analysis, the government’s interest may wane as time passes.
Issues such as this will need to be addressed in individual
cases.
    For these reasons, we uphold Rule 202.5(e) against the
instant facial-type First Amendment challenge, without
prejudice to future challenges on more particularized
records.
                             IV
    We lastly consider petitioners’ contention that the SEC’s
adoption of Rule 202.5(e) violates the APA. An agency’s
denial of a petition to amend a rule may be vacated if it is
“arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise
not in accordance with law.” 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A);
O’Keeffe’s, Inc. v. U.S. Consumer Prod. Safety Comm’n, 92
F.3d 940, 942 (9th Cir. 1996). Petitioners raise three
arguments on this score. Each is unpersuasive.
    First, we reject petitioners’ argument that the SEC
lacked statutory authority to enact Rule 202.5(e). Petitioners
claim that the SEC’s initial claimed sources of authority—
“section 19 of the Securities Act of 1933, section 23(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, section 20 of the [now-
repealed] Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935,
section 38 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 and
section 211 of the Investment Adviser’s Act of 1940,” 37
Fed. Reg. 25,224 (Nov. 29, 1972)—only empower the
30                     POWELL V. USSEC


agency to make internal housekeeping rules. According to
petitioners, these statutes provide no authority for a rule that
binds third parties that come before the agency.
    But there is no dispute that the SEC has “discretionary
authority to settle on a particular set of terms” with
defendants, SEC v. Citigroup Global Markets, Inc., 752 F.3d
285, 295 (2d Cir. 2014), and the Commission could have
informed each defendant individually about the settlement
terms the agency would be willing to accept. Petitioners do
not cite any authority suggesting that the SEC cannot
publicly announce its policy more formally, and, in fact,
petitioners’ request to the SEC was premised on the idea that
the SEC can have rules regarding settlements, with
petitioners urging the SEC to amend its rule.
    In addition, when denying the petition, the SEC
explained that Rule 202.5(e) “implements and aids in the
execution of the Commission’s enforcement powers under
[15 U.S.C. § 78u] and other enforcement-related
provisions.” In other words, the SEC premises its ability to
request certain terms of settlement on its powers to enforce
the securities laws through enforcement actions. We
understand the SEC’s latest explanation of the basis for the
Rule as simply a further elaboration of its original grounds
from 1972. And the SEC’s enforcement powers provide
sufficient authority for the Rule. See 15 U.S.C. § 78w(a)
(authorizing the SEC “to make such rules and regulations as
may be necessary or appropriate . . . for the execution of the
functions vested in them” under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934).
    Second, petitioners argue that Rule 202.5(e) fails
because it was not adopted through notice-and-comment
rulemaking. But under the APA, notice-and-comment
                      POWELL V. USSEC                      31


rulemaking is not required for “interpretative rules, general
statements of policy, or rules of agency organization,
procedure, or practice.” 5 U.S.C. § 553(b)(A). Rule
202.5(e) simply announces the Commission’s settlement
policy, and it is only enforced if a defendant signs a consent
agreement that contains a no-deny provision. The Rule is
best viewed as one of policy, procedure, or practice, which
is exempt from the notice-and-comment requirements.
    Finally, petitioners argue that the SEC failed to provide
a rational explanation for its determination not to amend
Rule 202.5(e). But judicial review of an agency’s “refus[al]
to exercise its discretion to promulgate proposed
regulations” is “‘extremely limited’ and ‘highly
deferential.’” Compassion Over Killing v. FDA, 849 F.3d
849, 854 (9th Cir. 2017) (quoting Massachusetts, 549 U.S.
at 527–28). In this case, the SEC’s explanation for not
amending its Rule survives our deferential review. Although
petitioners disagree with it, the SEC’s six-page letter
adequately explains the SEC’s reasoning.
                      *       *       *
   For the foregoing reasons, the petition for review is
   DENIED.
