          United States Court of Appeals
                      For the First Circuit

No. 07-1953

                    TOWN OF WINTHROP, ET AL.,

                           Petitioners,

                                v.

                 FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION,

                           Respondent,

                  MASSACHUSETTS PORT AUTHORITY,

                      Intervenor-Respondent.


               PETITION FOR REVIEW OF A FINAL ORDER
              OF THE FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION


                              Before

                        Lynch, Chief Judge,
                Lipez and Howard, Circuit Judges.


     Peter L. Koff with whom Engel & Schultz, LLP, Jerome E. Falbo,
and Falbo Solari & Goldberg were on brief for petitioner.
     M. Alice Thurston, Attorney, U.S. Department of Justice, with
whom Ronald J. Tenpas, Assistant Attorney General, Ronald M.
Spritzer, Attorney, U.S. Department of Justice, and John Donnelly,
Attorney, Federal Aviation Administration, were on brief for
respondent.
     Roscoe Trimmier, Jr., with whom Richard J. Lettieri, F. Turner
Buford, Ropes & Gray LLP, David S. Mackey, Massachusetts Port
Authority, and Ira M. Wallach, Massachusetts Port Authority, were
on brief for intervenor-respondent.



                          July 23, 2008
           LYNCH, Chief Judge.        The Town of Winthrop, which is

located next to Boston's Logan International Airport ("Logan"), and

two local residents (one from Winthrop and one from East Boston)

petition this court for review of a Federal Aviation Administration

("FAA") order permitting the construction of a new taxiway at the

airport.   They argue primarily that the FAA acted arbitrarily and

capriciously   in   deciding   that   it    did   not   need   to   prepare   a

supplemental environmental impact statement before issuing this

final order.

           Petitioners' concerns, as we understand them, may be

grouped under three major themes.          The FAA has concluded that the

new taxiway, along with other previously approved projects, will

ease congestion at the airport, reducing the amount of time planes

spend idling on the airfield and causing an overall reduction in

noise and air pollution.       Even if that were so, petitioners fear

that the FAA's solution for reducing delay will lead to greater use

of Logan, which in the long run will lead to more, not less,

adverse environmental impacts.

           Second, they fear that the FAA has not used the most

current data or methodologies available, which may cast doubt on

the agency's benefits analysis.

           Third, they say that public health studies show an

increasing concern about ultrafine particulate matter and that the

FAA should be required to continue to study this pollutant at

                                   -2-
Logan, both to evaluate these possible health effects and to keep

the   public    informed.       Notably,      petitioners    do    not   seek   an

injunction to stop the construction which has begun at Logan.

            We find that the FAA has taken all of these concerns into

account, has responded, and did not act arbitrarily or capriciously

in issuing its final order.        We deny the petition for review.

                                        I.

            Logan is the largest airport in New England; it has a

history of being one of the country's airports with the most

delayed flights.         In the year 2000, when 27.4 million passengers

and 1 billion pounds of freight passed through the airport, Logan

was ranked sixth nationally for airports with the most delays, even

though it was ranked eleventh for overall number of takeoffs and

landings and eighteenth for passenger volume.

            In 1993, the Massachusetts Port Authority ("Massport"),

which operates Logan, and the FAA began studying options for

improving      Logan's    operational    efficiency.    In    1995,      Massport

released a feasibility study which preliminarily analyzed different

options and recommended some for further consideration.                     These

recommended options included building a new runway (Runway 14/32),

realigning Taxiway November, building a new Centerfield Taxiway,

simplifying taxiway and runway crossings, and adding a surcharge

for use of the airport during peak demand periods.                Implementation




                                        -3-
of all or a subset of these options, it was believed, would

significantly reduce airport delays.

             In late 1995, Massport and the FAA began preparation of

an environmental impact statement ("EIS") regarding these potential

improvements, as required by state and federal law.                  The National

Environmental Policy Act ("NEPA") requires that all proposals for

"major Federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the

human environment" be accompanied by an EIS.              42 U.S.C. § 4332(c).

The   goal    of   NEPA     is    to    focus    attention    on    the   possible

environmental effects of proposed actions, which in turn furthers

two   important    purposes:       to   ensure   that   agencies    do    not   make

decisions     based   on     incomplete        information,   and    to    provide

information about environmental effects to the public and other

governmental agencies in a timely fashion so that they have an

opportunity to respond.           Marsh v. Or. Natural Res. Council, 490

U.S. 360, 371 (1989).            NEPA does not prevent agencies from then

deciding that the benefits of a proposed action outweigh the

potential     environmental        harms:   NEPA    guarantees      process,    not

specific outcomes.         Robertson v. Methow Valley Citizens Council,

490 U.S. 332, 350 (1989).1




      1
          Massachusetts has a similar act, the Massachusetts
Environmental Policy Act, which requires preparation of an
environmental impact report. Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 30, §§ 61-62I.
The undergoing of the state regulatory process was congruent with
the NEPA process and is not discussed separately here.

                                         -4-
          After extensive analysis and community input, the FAA

filed a draft EIS ("DEIS") in February 1999.              In response to that

draft, approximately 800 people attended two public hearings, and

the FAA received approximately 500 comment letters.               The FAA then

compiled a supplemental draft EIS ("SDEIS") to consider additional

issues; that document was published for comment in March 2001.

This time, approximately 800 people attended the public hearings,

and 850 comment letters were submitted.              The FAA published its

final EIS ("FEIS") in 2002.

          The    EIS    (the   DEIS,    SDEIS,     and    FEIS    collectively)

considered five project alternatives: three involving some or all

options considered by the feasibility study, one involving those

options not requiring any construction, and one maintaining the

status quo (the "no action alternative").                The EIS analyzed the

operational     and    environmental     effects    of     each    alternative,

considering both short-term and long-term impacts based on a range

of estimated future passenger loads and fleet composition (the mix

of the types of aircraft using Logan).

          Based on these findings, the FAA released a Record of

Decision ("ROD") in 2002, setting forth its rationale for approving

the following collection of options (the "preferred alternative"):

          a) Construction of a new runway (Runway 14/32)
          b) Construction of a new Centerfield Taxiway2


     2
           While the Centerfield Taxiway was included and analyzed
as part of the preferred alternative, final approval of the Taxiway

                                       -5-
          c) Reconfiguration of the southwest corner
          taxiway system
          d) Extension of Taxiway Delta
          e) Realignment of Taxiway November
          f) Reduction of instrument approach minimums
          for several runways

          The   FAA   determined   that   this    set   of   actions   was

preferable to the status quo. If no action were taken, the FAA

concluded, airport delays would continue to increase; the preferred

alternative, on the other hand, was expected to reduce delays by

approximately twenty-nine percent. There is a relationship between

delays and adverse environmental effects.        Delays cause airplanes

to idle needlessly on taxiways, increasing harmful emissions.          The

preferred alternative would reduce emissions and improve ambient

air quality, as compared to the no action alternative.

          Some local commenters have expressed concern that the

construction of the Centerfield Taxiway, which is at the heart of

the dispute before this court, would lead to an increase in flight

activity, thus increasing air pollutants.        The FAA denies this and

responds that airport capacity is primarily a factor of runway

capacity, not taxiway capacity; that the goal of this improvement

project is to reduce delays and improve safety within Logan's

current capacity; and that the Centerfield Taxiway would not

"independently affect the total number of aircraft operations at

Logan."



was not actually provided in the 2002 ROD, as discussed infra.

                                   -6-
            As for noise pollution, again compared to the no action

alternative, the FAA found the preferred alternative would (1)

drastically reduce the number of citizens exposed to excessive

noise levels, defined as 70 dB (decibels) DNL (day-night average

sound level) or higher, and (2) reduce the number of citizens

exposed in the near-term to 65 dB DNL, which is the threshold at

which the FAA considers noise levels to be significant as to

residential land use.         However, the reduction of the highest noise

levels would be achieved by redistributing aircraft throughout the

airfield,      so    the      preferred        alternative        would     result        in

approximately 250 more people being exposed to 65 dB DNL in the

long term.      Most of those affected would be residents of Chelsea

and East Boston.

            In its 2002 ROD, the FAA concluded, as it had in the

FEIS,   that     the     Centerfield         Taxiway     would    be      "the        largest

contributor to taxiway delay reduction" out of all the components

of the preferred alternative package and that the new taxiway would

"enhance    airfield       safety   .    .    .    ,   provide   small     air        quality

benefits,      and     have   no    significant         adverse    noise         or     other

environmental impact."

            However,       the     FAA   deferred        final    approval        of     the

construction of the Centerfield Taxiway, despite approving the

remaining components of its preferred alternative, in order to see

whether operational changes, in addition to the construction, would


                                             -7-
provide further benefits.       As a mitigation measure, the FAA agreed

first to conduct an additional study, seeking comment from persons

living around the northern side of the airfield, to consider

"potential beneficial operational procedures that would preserve or

improve     the   operational   and     environmental    benefits     of     the

Centerfield Taxiway as shown in the EIS."             The additional study

would also consider possible changes to the use of Taxiway November

in response to concerns from local communities. Before agreeing to

undertake this mitigation measure, the FAA considered the impact of

deferring construction of the Centerfield Taxiway and concluded

that "the potential deferment of the Centerfield Taxiway would have

no discernable impact on the environmental [benefits] associated

with the other [components] on the Preferred Alternative."                 It is

the     results   of   this   additional    consideration     of     potential

mitigation benefits which is at the heart of this petition.

            The FAA contracted with the firm of Harris Miller Miller

& Hanson Inc., experts in the field of noise and vibration control,

to    undertake   this   additional    limited    analysis   of    operational

alternatives.     That study ("HMMH Report"), which was published in

2006, considered the efficiency, noise, and air quality effects of

different uses of the November and proposed Centerfield Taxiways.

It concluded that "no operational action could be identified that

would     yield   environmental       benefits"    beyond    those     already




                                      -8-
anticipated by the EIS for the construction of the Centerfield

Taxiway.

           With that report completed, the FAA released a Written

Reevaluation and ROD in April 2007, affirming that the data and

analysis in the EIS were still "adequate, accurate, current and

valid," concluding that the FEIS did not need to be supplemented,

and approving the construction of the Centerfield Taxiway.

           The D.C. Circuit has already upheld the EIS and 2002 ROD

against legal challenge, see Cmtys. Against Runway Expansion, Inc.

v. FAA, 355 F.3d 678 (D.C. Cir. 2004), and this case presents no

issue as to the legality of those decisions.

           Petitioners   now   seek    review   of   the   2007   Written

Reevaluation and ROD.    Massport has intervened as a respondent in

support of the actions taken.   We are told that construction of the

preferred alternative is ongoing.        Petitioners do not seek to

enjoin that construction.

           We have jurisdiction over this final FAA order under 49

U.S.C. § 46110(a).

                                 II.

           As a preliminary matter, intervenor Massport challenges

petitioners' Article III standing before this court.              Because

Article III standing is a constitutional requirement, we address it

first, but as the FAA does not join in this challenge, we keep our

discussion brief.


                                 -9-
          Article III standing requires an injury-in-fact to a

cognizable    interest,   a    causal    link    between        that    injury       and

respondent's action, and a likelihood that the injury could be

redressed by the requested relief.           Sprint Commc'ns Co. v. APCC

Servs., Inc., ___ S. Ct. ___, 2008 WL 2484712, at *4 (June 23,

2008);   Save Our Heritage, Inc. v. FAA, 269 F.3d 49, 55 (1st Cir.

2001).   "To establish injury-in-fact in a 'procedural injury'

case," like the present one, "petitioners must show that 'the

government act performed without the procedure in question [here,

sufficient    NEPA   review]    will     cause      a    distinct       risk    to     a

particularized interest of the plaintiff."               City of Dania Beach v.

FAA, 485 F.3d 1181, 1185 (D.C. Cir. 2007) (quoting Fla. Audubon

Soc'y v. Bentsen, 94 F.3d 658, 663 (D.C. Cir. 1996) (en banc)).

          Massport challenges this requirement of injury-in-fact on

the grounds that the construction of the Centerfield Taxiway

(according to the EIS) will have minimal if any environmental

effect on the surrounding area.         Massport's argument puts the cart

before the horse; it assumes the outcome on the merits in making

its preliminary standing objection.

          Our standing discussion in Save Our Heritage is both

instructive   and    dispositive.       In   that       case,   local    towns       and

preservationist organizations challenged an FAA order regarding

flights originating from Hanscom Field, outside Boston.                        The FAA

argued there, as Massport does here, that the FAA's order would


                                    -10-
have "no significant environmental impact," so there would be no

standing.     Save Our Heritage, 269 F.3d at 56.         As we explained:

            We need not rule out the possibility of cases
            where the claim of impact is so specious or
            patently implausible that a threshold standing
            objection might be appropriate. . . .      But
            beyond that, we think that the likelihood and
            extent of impact are properly addressed in
            connection with the merits . . . .           A
            reasonable claim of minimal impact is enough
            for standing . . . .

Id. (citations omitted).

            Petitioners here have reasonably and adequately alleged

that   they    fear     harm-in-fact    should    the   Centerfield   Taxiway

construction go forward as approved by the FAA.              That is enough,

even if the FAA concluded otherwise in the order that petitioners

challenge.     Cf. Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U.S. 555, 572

n.7 (1992) ("[U]nder our case law, one living adjacent to the site

for proposed construction of a federally licensed dam has standing

to   challenge    the     licensing    agency's    failure   to   prepare   an

environmental impact statement, even though we cannot establish

with any certainty that the statement will cause the license to be

withheld or altered . . . ."). Petitioners have Article III

standing.

                                       III.

            We turn to the heart of petitioners' argument: that the

FAA's decision not to compile a supplemental EIS ("SEIS") was

arbitrary and capricious and that the HMMH Report erred in its


                                       -11-
choice of noise impact modeling.                We first describe the regulatory

requirements for an SEIS before addressing petitioners' three

challenges to the FAA's decision not to undertake one here.

A.             Regulatory Scheme and Standard of Review

               The road to final approval for an agency action is often

a long one; in this case it has been more than ten years since the

commencement of the EIS process and five years since the FEIS.                      It

would undermine NEPA's policies if agencies in the interim were

allowed to ignore material new information or circumstances which

could change the environmental analysis contained in the original

EIS.       See Marsh, 490 U.S. at 371.                The Council on Environmental

Quality's regulations implementing NEPA thus require a supplemental

EIS if "[t]he agency makes substantial changes in the proposed

action that are relevant to environmental concerns" or "[t]here are

significant          new    circumstances        or     information    relevant     to

environmental concerns and bearing on the proposed action or its

impacts."          40 C.F.R. § 1502.9(c)(1) (emphasis added).           That is, an

SEIS       would    be   required   here   if     new    information   "paint[ed]    a

dramatically          different     picture      of     impacts   compared   to   the

description         of   impacts    in   the    EIS."      Environmental     Impacts:

Policies and Procedures, FAA Order 1050.1E chg. 1 ¶ 516a (Mar. 20,

2006).3


       3
           FAA  Order   1050.1E   chg.    1   is   available   at
http://www.faa.gov/regulations_policies/orders_notices/media/1050
1echg.pdf.

                                           -12-
                  The FAA has, by order, imposed further requirements upon

itself for airport projects.               If more than three years have passed

since       the    FAA   approved     an   FEIS   and   no   major   steps   toward

implementing the proposed action have taken place, the FAA must

prepare a written reevaluation to determine whether the FEIS

"remains accurate, adequate, and current."                     NEPA Implementing

Instructions for Airport Projects, FAA Order 5050.4B ¶ 1401(c)(1)

(Apr. 28, 2006)4; see also FAA Order 1050.1E ¶ 514b(1) (requiring,

after three years of no major action, a written reevaluation of the

"adequacy, accuracy, and validity of the FEIS"). That is, the mere

passage of time does not require preparation of an SEIS, only a

written reevaluation.           The FAA also specifically committed itself

in the 2002 ROD to preparing a written reevaluation of whether it

was necessary to prepare an SEIS before issuing its final decision

on the Centerfield Taxiway, and it has done so.

                  If   "substantial    change"    has   occurred     involving   the

earlier data or other conditions relevant to the FAA's prior

decision, the preparation of an SEIS is required.                        FAA Order

5050.4B ¶ 1401(c)(1); see also FAA Order 1050.1E ¶ 514b(1) (if,

after three years, "there have been significant changes in . . .

the affected environment [or] anticipated impacts," an SEIS must be

prepared); FAA Order 5050.4B ¶ 1402(b)(2) (requiring an SEIS,


        4
          FAA     Order      5050.4B     is     available      at
http://www.faa.gov/airports_airtraffic/airports/resources/publica
tions/orders/environmental_5050_4.

                                           -13-
regardless of passage of time, if "[s]ignificant new changes,

circumstances or information relevant to the proposed action, its

affected     environment,   or    its   environmental      impacts       becomes

available").     The written reevaluation determining whether it is

necessary to prepare an SEIS need not, however, be made public.

FAA Order 5050.4B ¶ 1401(d); FAA Order 1050.1E ¶ 515c.

            While NEPA requires agencies to "take a 'hard look' at

the environmental effects of their planned action, even after a

proposal has received initial approval," Marsh, 490 U.S. at 374,

"an agency need not supplement an EIS every time new information

comes to light after the EIS is finalized," id. at 373.                     "To

require otherwise would render agency decision-making intractable,

always     awaiting   updated    information   only   to    find     the     new

information outdated by the time a decision is made."              Id.

            The key question for the FAA, then, is determining what

constitutes significant new information, and that is a factual

question requiring technical expertise.        Id. at 376.     The agency's

resolution of this question is thus one to which a reviewing court

owes considerable deference.        See id. at 376-77.         Considerable

deference is also owed to the FAA's determination of whether a

three-year-old FEIS remains accurate, adequate, and current, as

that determination is but a variation on the same question of

significance.




                                    -14-
             As a result, the FAA's decision not to issue an SEIS

cannot be set aside by a reviewing court unless that decision is

arbitrary    and   capricious.          Id.    at     376;    see    also    5    U.S.C.

§ 706(2)(A).    An agency's decision is not arbitrary and capricious

if that decision was based on consideration of the relevant factors

and if it did not commit a clear error of judgment.                         Marsh, 490

U.S. at 378; Airport Impact Relief, Inc. v. Wykle, 192 F.3d 197,

202 (1st Cir. 1999).

B.           Whether the FAA Erred in Its Determination That the FEIS
             Remains "Accurate, Adequate, Current, and Valid"

             Petitioners     primarily        argue    that    the    FAA     did   not

adequately    consider     all    the   requisite       factors      in   determining

whether there have been significant material changes since the 2002

ROD.    We    start   with       petitioners'       allegation       that    the    data

underlying the EIS is outdated.           The relevant requirement for the

FAA as to preparation of an SEIS is whether the FEIS remains

accurate,    adequate,     current,      and    valid.        FAA    Order       5050.4B

¶ 1401(c)(1); FAA Order 1050.1E ¶ 514b(1).

             As petitioners acknowledge, the 2007 ROD did specifically

make the finding that the FEIS remains accurate, adequate, current,

and valid.     Petitioners' two-sentence counter to this finding is,

at most, general and conclusory, providing us no grounds for

critiquing the FAA's procedures.              See Save Our Heritage, 269 F.3d

at 60 ("Gauzy generalizations . . ., in the face of specific

findings and a plausible result, are not even a start at a serious

                                        -15-
assault.");    Airport   Impact   Relief,   192   F.3d   at   205   ("Issues

adverted to in a perfunctory manner, unaccompanied by some effort

at developed argumentation, are deemed waived for purposes of

appeal.").    These general and undeveloped arguments are waived.

           Nonetheless, we address petitioners' criticism of the

continuing validity of the EIS as presented in their argument that

the data no longer reflects "existing environmental conditions."5

We disagree that the 2007 Written Reevaluation and ROD failed to

evaluate adequately the continuing validity of the data underlying

the EIS.     The ROD stated twice that the updated data analyzed in

the HMMH Report were consistent with and validated the earlier data

and analyses in the EIS.

           The HMMH report, in turn, carefully compared its data-

based conclusions regarding both air quality and noise impacts with

those reached earlier in the EIS.           The HMMH Report's analyses

incorporated new data gathered between 2002 and 2005.           The report

noted that the "models, methodologies and data" used in that report

were similar to those used in the EIS; these similarities allowed


     5
          Petitioners try to rephrase the FAA's obligation as one
of determining whether the FEIS "accurately reflect[s] existing
environmental conditions," which they treat as a distinct
requirement. This is not the standard; that language is lifted
from the FAA's rationale for allowing FAA officials "the discretion
to determine if a written re-evaluation of a NEPA document is
needed."   FAA Order 5050.4B ¶ 1401(a) (emphasis added).       That
language is not binding here, where a written reevaluation is
required due to the passage of time.         Further, petitioners'
treatment of the term "existing" suffers from the same faults as
their definition of "current," as we discuss.

                                   -16-
for    meaningful     comparison.     As    one   example   of   a     specific

comparison,     the    report   demonstrated      numerically    how     "[t]he

estimated annual average DNL values for the [HMMH Report]" -- that

is, the measurement of noise impact -- were "very comparable to

those listed in the EIS."            The report concluded that "[t]he

analyses . . . reflected in this report are consistent with those

performed for the [EIS]" and, "[t]herefore, the results of the

analysis on noise and air quality described in this report . . . do

not change any of the conclusions that were reached in the EIS."

            Given this validation of its earlier data, the FAA could

reasonably have concluded that there was no "substantial change" in

conditions since the data used in its EIS were gathered.               That is,

it was reasonable to assume in these circumstances that the mere

passage of time did not invalidate or render out-dated the data and

analyses in the EIS.

            Petitioners seem to assume that "current" in the FAA

regulation means literally contemporaneous.            That cannot be the

correct reading of the requirement, as data relied on in an FEIS

will    never   be    current   in   that   sense.      Further,       such   an

interpretation would read out the role of the written reevaluation,

as the data in a three-year-old FEIS would by definition never be

current.

            Rather, "current" should be read in conjunction with

"accurate" and "adequate" and in light of the general SEIS standard


                                     -17-
of significant change: the data remain "current" if there has been

no major change that would cause one to expect contemporaneous

conditions to vary significantly from conditions at the time the

data were gathered.      By validating through the HMMH Report that

more recent conditions generate similar data as the data used in

the EIS, the FAA could reasonably conclude that all the data still

reflected current conditions.       In another recent situation where

the FAA determined that more recent data did not draw into question

the modeling it had conducted using older data, the D.C. Circuit

explained:

          However desirable it may be for agencies to
          use the most current and comprehensive data
          available when making decisions, the FAA has
          expressed its professional judgment that the
          later data would not alter its conclusions in
          the EIS . . . , and it is reasonably concerned
          that an unyielding avalanche of information
          might overwhelm an agency's ability to reach a
          final decision. . . .      The method the FAA
          chose, creating its models with the best
          information available when it began its
          analysis and then checking the assumptions of
          those models as new information became
          available, was a reasonable means of balancing
          those competing considerations, particularly
          given the many months required to conduct full
          modeling with new data.

Vill. of Bensenville v. FAA, 457 F.3d 52, 71 (D.C. Cir. 2006)

(citation omitted); cf. Save Our Heritage, 269 F.3d at 59-60.

          To the extent that petitioners seek a more detailed

description   of   the   FAA's   consideration   of   the   HMMH   report's

conclusions regarding the continuing validity of the EIS data, none


                                   -18-
was required.    See Forest Guardians v. U.S. Forest Serv., 495 F.3d

1162, 1172-73 (10th Cir. 2007) ("NEPA imposes no obligation to use

precise phrasing."); cf. Airport Impact Relief, 192 F.3d at 209

("[A] federal agency need not perform the detailed environmental

analysis of an [S]EIS before it can determine that no [S]EIS need

be prepared.     Such a requirement would eliminate the threshold

requirements of the regulations in favor of a full . . . SEIS in

every case.").    Instead, the arbitrary and capricious standard of

review "requires substantial deference to the agency . . . when

[courts] review[] drafting decisions like how much discussion to

include on each topic, and how much data is necessary to fully

address each issue."     Sierra Club v. Van Antwerp, 526 F.3d 1353,

1361 (11th Cir. 2008).

          The FAA adequately considered the continuing validity of

the data underlying the FEIS. Its determination that the data were

still adequate, accurate, current, and valid was not arbitrary and

capricious.

C.        Whether Concerns About Ultrafine Particulate       Matter
          Constitute Significant New Information

          Petitioners next argue that new studies demonstrating the

effects of fine and ultrafine particulate matter ("PM") on public

health constitute significant new information that the FAA should

have considered in an SEIS.      See 40 C.F.R. § 1502.9(c)(1)(ii).

They also fault the FAA for not adequately responding to and

considering concerns about these health effects.

                                 -19-
              The Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") sets National

Ambient Air Quality Standards ("NAAQS"), which define acceptable

levels of certain regulated air pollutants, including PM.              PM is,

in turn, categorized as coarse, fine, and ultrafine.             At the time

of the EIS, there were NAAQS for coarse PM, which is PM with an

aerodynamic diameter of 10 microns or smaller ("PM10"). Fine PM is

defined as PM with a diameter of 2.5 microns or smaller ("PM2.5");

ultrafine PM is defined as PM with an diameter of 0.1 microns or

less.

              The FAA included coarse PM (PM10) in the air pollutants

it measured and analyzed during the EIS process. It concluded that

none of the alternatives considered would come close to violating

the   NAAQS    for   PM10,   and   it    also   found   that   the   preferred

alternative would slightly decrease PM10 emissions over the other

alternatives, including the no action alternative.              For example,

under the no action alternative, PM10 emissions in 2010 were

estimated to range from 280 to 336 kilograms per day, depending on

airport volume; under the preferred alternative, PM10 emissions

would range from 251 to 299 kilograms per day.6




      6
          After the FEIS but before the 2007 Written Reevaluation
and ROD, NAAQS for PM2.5 took effect. Petitioners do not argue
that the FAA has not measured PM2.5 adequately or applied the PM2.5
NAAQS; rather, they argue that the FAA has not adequately
considered the health effects of fine and ultrafine particulate
matter.

                                        -20-
            Petitioners      point    to    three    letters     in   particular,

submitted in response to the draft written reevaluation, that raise

questions about the adequacy of the FAA's consideration of the

health impacts of the Centerfield Taxiway: a letter from the

Massachusetts Department of Public Health, Center for Environmental

Health; a letter from the City of Boston's Environment Department;

and   a   letter     from    the     Boston    Public       Health     Commission,

Environmental      Hazards     Program.            Contrary     to    petitioners'

assertions,    the    FAA   did    respond    to    these     concerns,   and   its

responses were not unreasonable.

            These letters primarily urged greater data collection and

analysis.     They specifically expressed concern that air quality

data be gathered at points closer to the airport to better measure

local impact.        They also argued that city-wide or region-wide

compliance with NAAQS was insufficient reassurance of local air

quality, as air quality near a major emission source like Logan

would likely be worse than the regional average. In its responses,

the FAA emphasized that multiple ongoing studies were or would be

gathering such localized data.             Massport already provides annual

Environmental Data Reports on emissions from Logan. As a condition

of state approval for the project, Massport agreed to implement an

air quality study that would measure emissions in neighborhoods

around Logan both before and after the Centerfield Taxiway becomes

operational.       The Massachusetts Department of Public Health is


                                      -21-
currently conducting a study of the health impacts of Logan on

surrounding communities, a project that includes further data

gathering and analysis.        The FAA also noted additional programs

requiring    Logan   to   monitor   the   local      impact   of   emissions   of

specific pollutants.      To the extent the letters suggested that the

FAA   wait   until   further   data   had     been   collected,     it   was   not

arbitrary and capricious for the FAA to conclude that it had enough

data to make a reasoned decision.            There will always be more data

that could be gathered; agencies must have some discretion to

decide when to draw the line and move forward with decisionmaking.

             All three letters expressed concern that the HMMH Report

used emissions inventory data (the amount of pollutants generated)

rather than atmospheric dispersion modeling based on that emissions

inventory data (which would estimate levels of human exposure to

pollutants at specific times and locations).             The latter provides

a more complete picture of the health impact of emissions on

surrounding communities.       The FAA responded by pointing out that

such dispersion analyses had been conducted as part of the EIS.

The measurement of health effects is integral to an EIS, but the

purpose of a written reevaluation is not the same.                 The question

for the FAA at this stage was whether the data in the HMMH Report

drew into question the health impact analyses in the EIS.                The FAA

has reasonably concluded that it did not.




                                      -22-
            Finally, and in petitioners' view most importantly, all

three letters urged monitoring of ultrafine PM because of growing

evidence of that pollutant's adverse health effects.           The FAA

acknowledged these concerns and noted that it is "sponsoring

research into the potential health effects of PM emitted from

aircraft engines."      It explained that it did not measure ultrafine

PM    separately   in   this   decision-making   process   because   the

"technology and methods for monitoring ultra-fine PM is considered

to be emerging and is still under development by the U.S. EPA and

others."7    The FAA also noted that it is engaged in an ongoing

effort with the EPA, NASA, and other agencies to measure emissions

from modern-day aircraft engines, including emissions of ultrafine

PM.

            Not only were these responses adequate, but they also

demonstrate that the FAA did consider the information presented,

and we cannot say that the agency committed a clear error in

judgment in concluding that this information did not warrant an

SEIS. Preliminarily, it was not unreasonable for the FAA to assume

that, if the preferred alternative would reduce all NAAQS-regulated

air pollutants (including PM10), then the preferred alternative --

which includes construction of the Centerfield Taxiway -- would


      7
          The PM10 NAAQS covers all PM up to 10 microns in
diameter, including ultrafine PM.    The concern is that a high
concentration of ultrafine PM within otherwise acceptable PM10
levels could cause health problems, in which case there would be a
need for separate measurements of ultrafine PM.

                                  -23-
also reduce levels of ultrafine PM.            It is a matter of common sense

that       an   action   quantitatively     projected      to    reduce    all    air

pollutants that were studied would also reduce the amount of air

pollutants not studied. Cf. Airport Impact Relief, 192 F.3d at 209

(describing sensibleness of presuming that increased noise due to

building roadway at a higher elevation than originally planned

would be largely offset by decreased noise due to moving roadway

further away from area of concern).               Petitioners have provided no

reason to doubt that decreased idling and taxiing time would lead

to a decrease in all emissions.8

                Further, the FAA acted within reason in considering how

to treat this information.           Health impacts due to PM had already

been considered in the EIS; while these newer studies might provide

more       information   on   potential    health     effects,    the     FAA    could

reasonably        conclude    that   the   information       presented     was    not

"significant       new   information"      because    it   did   not    "paint[]    a

dramatically        different    picture     of    impacts      compared    to     the

description of impacts in the EIS."                  FAA Order 1050.1E ¶ 516a

(defining "significant information").                This area of research is

also still developing.          It is not unreasonable for an agency to

decline to study in an SEIS a pollutant for which there are not yet

standard methods of measurement or analysis. An SEIS is not, after


       8
          Again, we accept the FAA's and Massport's assertion, in
the absence of any contrary evidence, that the Centerfield Taxiway
will not lead to an increase in the aircraft capacity of Logan.

                                        -24-
all, a research document.       Cf. Lee v. U.S. Air Force, 354 F.3d

1229, 1244 (10th Cir. 2004) (Air Force not required to conduct own

studies where scientific information is scarce, despite concerns

raised during the comment period).        We emphasize that the FAA has

not ignored these concerns; rather, it has decided to evaluate the

issue fully in a more appropriate setting alongside agencies with

relevant expertise.

          We   are   thus   satisfied    that   the   FAA   considered   the

information presented and that its determination that there was no

significant new information was not a clear error in judgment. The

FAA's decision not to prepare an SEIS was not arbitrary and

capricious.

D.        Whether the HMMH Report Erred in Its Choice of Computer
          Model for Evaluating Noise Impact of Centerfield Taxiway

          Petitioners assert that the HMMH Report did not use an

appropriate modeling program for evaluating the noise impact of

different uses of the November and Centerfield Taxiways.          However,

"[a]gencies are entitled to select their own methodology as long as

that methodology is reasonable.          The reviewing court must give

deference" to that decision. Hughes River Watershed Conservancy v.

Johnson, 165 F.3d 283, 289 (4th Cir. 1999); see also Valley

Citizens for a Safe Env't v. Aldridge, 886 F.2d 458, 469 (1st Cir.

1989).

          The HMMH Report provided a reasonable explanation for

selecting the SoundPLAN model.     It explained:

                                  -25-
          The SoundPLAN model is more appropriate for
          evaluation of aircraft ground operations than
          the FAA's Integrated Noise Model (INM), which
          is intended primarily for the evaluation of
          aircraft flight operations. While the INM can
          be used to model taxi operations, it is a very
          crude tool for this purpose. . . . By using
          SoundPLAN and aircraft noise emissions data
          collected at idle/taxi power settings, noise
          modeling is much more precise. Also, the INM
          does not incorporate any building or terrain
          shielding, or variation in ground type . . .,
          so these characteristics, which are important
          for ground-based noise sources[,] cannot be
          modeled with INM.

The FAA also responded thoroughly to specific concerns regarding

the HMMH Report's sound analysis.

          As a preliminary matter, respondents point out that

petitioners did not specifically object to the use of the SoundPLAN

model during the comment period on the draft written reevaluation,

which relied on the HMMH Report.    "[T]he time to complain, and to

complain clearly, about methodology was at the comment stage, not

two years later after the [relevant report] was complete."   Valley

Citizens, 886 F.2d at 469.   It does the agency no good to receive

criticism of its choice of methodology after it has finished its

decisionmaking process, especially when there was a chance to

comment earlier.   See Vt. Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. Natural

Res. Def. Council, 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978) ("[I]t is . . .

incumbent upon intervenors who wish to participate . . . to

structure their participation so that it is meaningful, so that it

alerts the agency to the intervenors' position and contentions.").


                               -26-
           While   concerns   about   the   application   of   the   chosen

methodology were raised during the comment period (concerns which

we believe the FAA adequately addressed), the petitioners here do

not allege any harm or error resulting from the use of SoundPLAN

but only assert that the very choice of SoundPLAN was erroneous.

We believe that argument was waived because it was not raised

before the agency.   We continue on a little further to explain why,

even if preserved, the argument would fail regardless.

           Petitioners point to FAA internal regulations regarding

the preparation of an EIS, which require a detailed noise analysis

if significant noise impacts are expected.           FAA Order 1050.1E

¶ 14.2a.    These regulations further state that "[a]ll detailed

noise analyses must be performed using the most current version of

the FAA's Integrated Noise Model (INM), Heliport Noise Model (HNM),

or Noise Integrated Routing System (NIRS).        Use of an equivalent

methodology and computer model must receive prior written approval

from the FAA's Office of Environment and Energy."         Id. ¶ 14.2b.   No

prior written approval was obtained for the use of SoundPLAN in the

HMMH Report.

           However, as the FAA points out, the HMMH Report is not an

EIS.   Instead, the HMMH Report considered operational alternatives

that   might   further   decrease     noise   impacts     on   neighboring

communities.   There was no regulatory requirement for the FAA to

use any specific model for this study.          SoundPLAN was selected


                                  -27-
because it was considered more sensitive to the sources of noise of

most concern in the HMMH Report and would thus be more likely to

illuminate an operational alternative that would improve noise

conditions for nearby residents.        This is a reasonable explanation

to which we must defer.

                                      IV.

            As a final matter, petitioners seek to supplement the

administrative record with additional documents.                In considering

whether an agency action was arbitrary and capricious, "the focal

point for judicial review should be the administrative record

already in existence, not some new record made initially in the

reviewing court."        Camp v. Pitts, 411 U.S. 138, 142 (1973).

Supplementing the administrative record on judicial review is

therefore the exception, not the rule, and is discretionary with

the reviewing court.      See Valley Citizens, 886 F.2d at 460.            There

are   two   types   of   situations    in    which   we   may   exercise   that

discretion.    This court "'may' (although it is not required to)

supplement the record where there is [] 'a strong showing of bad

faith or improper behavior' by agency decision makers."               Olsen v.

United States, 414 F.3d 144, 155 (1st Cir. 2005) (quoting Citizens

to Preserve Overton Park, Inc. v. Volpe, 401 U.S. 402, 420 (1971),

overruled on other grounds by Califano v. Sanders, 430 U.S. 99

(1977)).     "Alternatively, supplementation of the record may be

permissible where there is a 'failure to explain administrative


                                      -28-
action as to frustrate effective judicial review.'"                  Id. at 155-56

(quoting Camp, 411 U.S. at 142-43).

           Neither      situation         presents    itself    here,      nor   do

petitioners argue otherwise.          Indeed, petitioners argue very few

specifics as to why these documents should be included.                    We deny

the   motion    to   supplement     the    record    and   briefly    outline    our

rationale as to each specific request.

           First, petitioners' request for a separate indexing of

documents which are already included in the administrative record

(as part of the administrative record for the D.C. Circuit's review

of the 2002 ROD) is frivolous.                Second, the petitioners seek

inclusion of an email from a contractor to an FAA official, but by

its nature the email would not illuminate the thinking of anyone

within the FAA, and the FAA asserts that it did not rely on the

content of that email in its decisionmaking (hence the agency's

omission of the email from the record).

           Third, the petitioners would like included forty-six

documents which the FAA has withheld in response to a Freedom of

Information Act ("FOIA") request filed by petitioners.                       In an

entirely   separate     proceeding        regarding    this    FOIA   request,     a

district judge has reviewed those forty-six documents in camera and

agreed   with    the   FAA   that    the    documents      pertain    to   internal

deliberative processes and were properly exempted from disclosure

under FOIA.     Petitioners have appealed that ruling as a separate


                                      -29-
matter, not presently before us.         Documents pertaining to internal

deliberative processes are irrelevant to this petition.

           Finally, petitioners have moved to supplement the record

with the declaration of Helen Suh, Sc.D., dated December 19, 2007

(more   than   six   months    after   the    release   of   the    final   ROD).

Petitioners propose that the declaration would aid this court's

understanding of the technical issues involved in this case.                 See

Valley Citizens, 886 F.2d at 460.            "However desirable this kind of

evidentiary supplementation as an aid to understanding highly

technical, environmental matters, its use is discretionary with the

reviewing court."     Id.     The Suh declaration elaborates on concerns

already addressed in the record.              Thus regardless of whether it

might illuminate the factual dispute further, it would not bear on

the relevant legal question: whether the FAA adequately considered

these concerns and reasonably reached the decision it did based on

the information it had at the time.           See id. at 461.      We decline to

review the document.        We can find no other legitimate basis among

petitioners' arguments for supplementing the record with this post-

ROD declaration.

                                        V.

           We deny the motions to supplement the record, and we deny

the petition for review.




                                       -30-
