                   United States Court of Appeals
                           FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT




No. 24-1108                                                  September Term, 2024
                                                             FILED ON: AUGUST 12, 2025

INDIAN PEAK PROPERTIES LLC,
                   PETITIONER

v.

FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION AND UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
                 RESPONDENTS


                            On Petition for Review of an Order of the
                             Federal Communications Commission


       Before: SRINIVASAN, Chief Judge, and MILLETT and PAN, Circuit Judges.

                                        JUDGMENT

        This appeal was considered on the record from the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia and on the briefs and oral argument of the parties. The panel has accorded
the issues full consideration and has determined that they do not warrant a published opinion. See
D.C. Cir. R. 36(d). It is hereby

       ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the petition for review of agency action by the
Federal Communications Commission be DENIED.

                                                I.

        This case concerns the Federal Communications Commission’s “over-the-air-reception
devices” rule, or OTARD Rule. 47 C.F.R. § 1.4000. The Rule “authorized the installation on
private property, with the owner’s consent, of ‘over-the-air reception devices’”—e.g., over-the-air
antennas—“regardless of State and local restrictions, ‘including zoning, land-use, or building
regulation[s], or any private covenant, homeowners association rule or similar restriction on
property.’” Children’s Health Def. v. FCC, 25 F.4th 1045, 1047 (D.C. Cir. 2022) (quoting 47
C.F.R. § 1.4000(a)(1) (1997)). For the Rule’s preemption of state and local regulations to apply
to a given antenna, the antenna must “serve[] a customer on whose premises it is located.” In re
Updating the Commission’s Rule for Over-the-Air Reception Devices, 36 FCC Rcd. 537, 540 ⁋ 9
(2021).
        In addition to preempting certain state and local regulations, the OTARD Rule provides
aggrieved property owners a mechanism to “petition the Commission for a declaratory ruling . . .
to determine whether a particular restriction is permissible or prohibited” under the Rule. 47
C.F.R. § 1.4000(e). The Rule states that such petitions “will be put on public notice.” Id. It also
prescribes what happens during a “proceeding” on a petition. For example, “if a proceeding is
initiated,” then “the entity seeking to enforce the antenna restrictions in question must suspend all
enforcement efforts pending completion of review.” Id. § 1.4000(a)(4).

         This case concerns a single-family home in Rancho Palos Verdes, California. The property
has been owned for many years by either James A. Kay, Jr., or Indian Peak, a Nevada limited
liability company for which Kay is the principal and predecessor-in-interest. In 2004, the City
granted a conditional use permit that allowed the placement of five antennas on the roof. In the
ensuing years, the antennas on the roof proliferated. In 2014, City staff investigating a complaint
about the number of commercial antennas on the roof “discovered there were now at least 11
vertical antennae (or antenna masts) and other equipment on the roof.” City of Rancho Palos
Verdes v. Indian Peak Props., LLC, No. B303638, 2021 WL 5316348, at *2 (Cal. Ct. App. Nov.
16, 2021). The City concluded that there was no one living in the home and that it was vacant but
for activity related to the antennas.

       In 2018, the City revoked Indian Peak’s conditional use permit for the antennas and filed
a public nuisance lawsuit in state court seeking removal of the antennas. Indian Peak sought to
preserve the antennas through a variety of routes, including by petitioning the Commission for a
declaratory ruling that the City’s actions were preempted under the OTARD Rule.

        Indian Peak filed its initial petition with the Commission in April 2020. The Commission’s
Wireless Telecommunications Bureau dismissed the petition without prejudice in a letter ruling.
The ruling explained that the petition “fail[ed] to provide sufficient information” regarding a
number of requirements for the application of the OTARD Rule, including whether “the antennas
on the building serve a customer located on the premises,” as the Bureau understood the Rule to
require. J.A. 569–70; see also 47 C.F.R. § 1.4000(a)(5). While the petition asserted that various
commercial entities have “access” to the antennas to “provide back-up and additional
connectivity,” the petition did not assert that “Indian Peak or any other user is a customer” on the
premises. J.A. 570 (citation omitted).

        Indian Peak tried again. This time it filed five new petitions regarding specific antennas
on the roof. Again, the Bureau ultimately dismissed the petitions without prejudice, and for similar
reasons. The ruling stated that “the purposes and uses of the majority of the antennas . . . remain[]
unclear.” J.A. 614. A variety of inconsistent statements of fact in Indian Peak’s filings left the
agency unable to conclude that certain antennas were “serving end users at the premises.” J.A.
617. The ruling also addressed a new argument raised by Indian Peak: that its 2020 petition should
have stopped the City’s ongoing enforcement actions because it initiated a proceeding, triggering
the OTARD Rule’s requirement to suspend enforcement efforts pending review of a petition. The
agency rejected that contention, citing its longstanding practice of dismissing petitions without
prejudice in certain situations without initiating a proceeding.
         Indian Peak applied for full Commission review. It advanced three arguments. First, it
contended that there were “customers” on the premises: the service providers for the antennas
themselves. Second, it disputed the ruling’s conclusion that agency staff have discretion to
determine whether to initiate a proceeding on a petition. Nonetheless, Indian Peak stated that there
was no point in putting the petitions on public notice at this late stage, and it identified no benefit
to initiating a proceeding, instead describing the petitions in question as “ripe for grant.” J.A. 676.
Third, it asserted that the Commission’s earlier failure to initiate a proceeding violated its due
process right.

         On March 7, 2024, the full Commission denied Indian Peak’s application for review.
First, the Commission rejected Indian Peak’s argument that the service providers were adequate
end users for purposes of the OTARD Rule. It explained that the Commission had “never altered
the basic requirement that the rule benefit a human antenna user.” J.A. 763. The Commission
crystallized that requirement as follows: “For OTARD protections to attach to a fixed wireless
antenna, the petitioner must demonstrate that it is regularly being used to provide signals to human
end users at the location where the equipment is installed.” J.A. 764. Indian Peak’s “allegations
of a human presence at the antenna site” were “vague to the point that [the Commission was]
unable to conclude that human users [were] on site to more than a de minimis extent.” J.A. 765.
Second, the Commission dispensed with Indian Peak’s argument that it was error not to place the
petition on public notice by deeming the issue “moot.” J.A. 768. The Commission pointed to
Indian Peak’s statement that its petitions were “ripe for grant” without further procedure. Finally,
the Commission found that Indian Peak had forfeited its due-process arguments by failing to assert
them until the final stage of agency review. J.A. 769.

        Indian Peak now petitions for review of the Commission’s final order.               We have
jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 2342(1) and 47 U.S.C. § 402(a).

                                                  II.

       None of the arguments that Indian Peak advances on appeal are properly presented.

       Much of Indian Peak’s briefing is dedicated to arguing against the human-presence
requirement described in the Commission’s final order. But—as Indian Peak’s counsel confirmed
at oral argument, see Oral Argument at 1:30–2:02—Indian Peak does not argue that the
Commission lacks the substantive authority to establish a human-presence requirement. Instead,
Indian Peak argues only that the human-presence requirement is a legislative rule that needed to
be adopted pursuant to notice-and-comment rulemaking under the Administrative Procedure Act.

         That argument was not preserved before the Commission. The Communications Act
requires a party to file a petition for reconsideration if it seeks review “rel[ying] on questions of
fact or law upon which the Commission . . . has been afforded no opportunity to pass.” 47 U.S.C.
§ 405(a). Perhaps Indian Peak could be excused for not objecting to the human-presence
requirement before the Commission’s final order, when the Commission first articulated its
claimed human-presence requirement as a clear standard. But after that order, Indian Peak should
have filed a petition for reconsideration raising the APA argument before seeking judicial review.
In re Core Commc’ns, Inc., 455 F.3d 267, 276–77 (D.C. Cir. 2006). There is no basis for excusing
Indian Peak’s failure to do so. Nat’l Lifeline Ass’n v. FCC, 983 F.3d 498, 509 (D.C. Cir. 2020)
(This Court has “strictly construed § 405(a), and [has] made it clear that [it] will not review
arguments that have not first been presented to the Commission.” (quoting Core, 455 F.3d at 276;
Qwest Corp. v. FCC, 482 F.3d 471, 474 (D.C. Cir. 2007))); see also Cassell v. FCC, 154 F.3d 478,
485 (D.C. Cir. 1998).

        As for Indian Peak’s argument that it was error to dismiss its petitions without initiating a
proceeding (which would have in turn triggered various procedural requirements like public notice
and the bar against enforcing the restrictions at issue while the proceeding is pending), Indian Peak
again failed to preserve its challenge before the Commission. Indian Peak did not ask for a
proceeding to be opened, nor did it ask for any of the concomitant procedural protections. Instead,
Indian Peak told the Commission that the petitions were “ripe for grant.” J.A. 676. The
Commission accepted that representation and concluded that there would be “no purpose” in going
back because Indian Peak thought “the record [was] adequate to establish its entitlement to
preemption relief.” J.A. 768. Having decided that Indian Peak was not entitled to such relief, the
Commission deemed any procedural objections moot. Id. Again, the Commission never ruled on
the merits of Indian Peak’s argument that it was entitled to a proceeding and public notice; and,
again, Indian Peak did not move for reconsideration of the Commission’s decision to deem the
argument moot. Thus, these procedural arguments were not properly exhausted before the
Commission.

        Finally, Indian Peak’s due-process arguments, as the Commission found, were forfeited
because they were not advanced until the final stage of agency review. In its opening brief on
appeal in this Court, Indian Peak ignored the Commission’s forfeiture finding. In its reply brief,
Indian Peak said only that, “to the extent that [its] constitutional claim was not properly presented,
the Commission exercised its discretion in the Order and addressed the merits.” Reply Br. 8
(internal citations omitted). The Commission was clear in its final order, however, that it saw
forfeiture as dispositive and only addressed the merits of the due-process argument in the
alternative. Thus, the due-process arguments are not properly before us.

                                                ***

       For the foregoing reasons, the petition for review is denied.

        Pursuant to D.C. Circuit Rule 36, this disposition will not be published. The Clerk is
directed to withhold issuance of the mandate until seven days after resolution of any timely petition
for rehearing or rehearing en banc. See Fed. R. App. P. 41(b); D.C. Cir. R. 41.

                                            Per Curiam

                                                              FOR THE COURT:
                                                              Clifton B. Cislak, Clerk

                                                      BY:     /s/
                                                              Daniel J. Reidy
                                                              Deputy Clerk
