                                                                      FILED
                                                          United States Court of Appeals
                                                                  Tenth Circuit

                                                                 March 27, 2009
                                    PUBLISH                   Elisabeth A. Shumaker
                                                                  Clerk of Court
                   UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS

                                 TENTH CIRCUIT


 SHERREL AND LESLIE STEPHEN
 JONES,

       Petitioners-Appellants,
 v.                                                     No. 08-9001

 COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
 REVENUE,

       Respondent-Appellee.


            APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES TAX COURT
                        (Case No. 20253-04)

Leslie Stephen Jones (April M. Davis, Jones, Otjen & Davis, Enid, Oklahoma, and
Clarke L. Randall, Kornfield, Franklin, Renegar & Randall, Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma, with him on the briefs), Jones, Otjen & Davis, Enid, Oklahoma for
Petitioners-Appellants.

Patrick J. Urda (Nathan J. Hochman, Assistant Attorney General, and Richard Farber,
Attorney, Tax Division, Department of Justice with him on the briefs), Attorney, Tax
Division, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C. for Respondent-Appellee.


Before TACHA, BALDOCK, and O’BRIEN, Circuit Judges.

BALDOCK, Circuit Judge.


      In July 2004 the Commissioner of Internal Revenue (Commissioner) issued a

notice of deficiency to Petitioners Sherrel and Leslie Stephen Jones for the years
2000 and 2001 in the amount of $14,784.99. The basis for the deficiency was the

Commissioner’s determination that Petitioners improperly claimed a large income

tax deduction for a charitable contribution of discovery material that Leslie Stephen

Jones acquired while serving as lead defense counsel in the Oklahoma City Bombing

trial. Petitioners contested the deficiency notice in United States Tax Court, and now

appeal the tax court’s judgment upholding the Commissioner’s determination. We

have jurisdiction under 26 U.S.C. § 7482(a)(1). Although our rationale differs from

the tax court, we affirm.

                                         I.

      Taxpayer Leslie Stephen Jones 1 was lead defense counsel for Timothy

McVeigh in the Oklahoma City Bombing trial.              During the course of his

representation, the Government provided Taxpayer with voluminous discovery

material related to the prosecution of McVeigh. The same discovery material was

furnished to the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation, the Oklahoma County

District Attorney’s Office, and counsel for McVeigh’s co-defendant, Terry Nichols.

The material included, inter alia, copies of FBI witness statements, FBI lab notes,

photographs, and computer discs. After McVeigh was convicted in August 1997,

Taxpayer withdrew as lead defense counsel. Subsequently, in December 1997,

Taxpayer donated the discovery material to the Center for American History at the

      1
        Because the deficiency notice was for a joint tax return, Sherrel and
Leslie Stephen Jones both appeal the tax court’s decision. For purposes of this
opinion, however, we refer only to Leslie Stephen Jones as “Taxpayer.”

                                          2
University of Texas.

      Prior to the donation, Taxpayer had the discovery material appraised by an

expert at a value of $294,877.00. Taxpayer claimed a deduction for the material on

his 1997 income tax return. The excess amount of the deduction was carried over

to subsequent tax years. In 2004 the Commissioner noticed Taxpayer for income tax

return deficiencies of $3,675.00 in 2000 and $11,109.99 in 2001. 2               The

Commissioner informed Taxpayer that he did not “own” the donated material and,

therefore, could not claim a charitable contribution deduction.       Moreover, the

Commissioner explained that the amount reportable as a deduction was limited to

ordinary income or short-term capital income (i.e., the discovery material was not

a long-term capital asset). Because the material was either ordinary income or short-

term capital income, the amount of the deduction was limited to Taxpayer’s basis in

the donated property (i.e., the purchasing price of the discovery material or the

amount Taxpayer invested in the discovery material).       Taxpayer’s basis in the

discovery material was zero and, therefore, the amount he could claim as a charitable

contribution was zero.

      Taxpayer filed a petition in United States Tax Court, seeking a redetermination

of the deficiencies. The tax court issued its opinion, first ruling that Taxpayer did

not own the donated material under Oklahoma law. See United States v. Nat’l Bank


      2
         The Commissioner’s recovery of deficiencies on Taxpayer’s income tax
returns from 1997-1999 was barred by the statute of limitations.

                                         3
of Commerce, 472 U.S. 713, 722 (1985) (noting that when applying federal tax law,

state law controls the nature of the taxpayer’s interest in property). In support of its

decision, the tax court determined that the material was provided to Taxpayer only

in his representative and agent capacity for McVeigh. Relying on precedent from

jurisdictions outside Oklahoma, and the Oklahoma Rules of Professional Conduct,

the tax court held that primary ownership in an attorney’s case file lies with the

client and not the attorney. Thus, Taxpayer did not own the donated discovery

material.

      The tax court also ruled, in the alternative, that if Taxpayer owned the

discovery material, it was not a “capital asset,” and, therefore, the amount Taxpayer

could claim as a deduction was equal to his basis in the donated material.

Specifically, the tax court held that the donated discovery material qualified as

letters, memoranda, and similar property prepared by Taxpayer’s personal efforts.

Such property is excluded from the Internal Revenue Code’s (IRC) definition of

“capital asset,” 26 U.S.C. § 1221(a)(3)(A), and the deduction value is limited to

Taxpayer’s basis in the property. Because Taxpayer’s basis was zero, the tax court

held he could not claim a charitable contribution deduction.

                                          II.

      We review the tax court’s decision in the same manner as we review a district

court decision tried without a jury. See Watkins v. Comm’r, 447 F.3d 1269, 1271

(10th Cir. 2006). We review legal questions de novo and factual questions for clear

                                           4
error. See id. As noted, the tax court held that Taxpayer was not entitled to claim

a deduction on the donation of the discovery material for two reasons: (1) Taxpayer

did not own the discovery material, and (2) the discovery material was not a capital

asset. Because we hold that the discovery material is not a capital asset, we need not

decide whether Taxpayer owned the discovery material under Oklahoma law. As the

following discussion demonstrates, however, our rationale for determining that the

discovery material is not a capital asset differs from that of the tax court.

                                          A.

      The value of a charitable contribution of property, and thus the value that can

be deducted from an income tax return, is reduced by “the amount of gain which

would not have been long term capital gain if the property had been sold by the

taxpayer at its fair market value.” 26 U.S.C. § 170(e)(1)(A) (emphasis added).

Thus, unless the property is a capital asset providing long term capital gain, the

property qualifies as ordinary income and a taxpayer’s deduction is limited to his

cost or basis in the property. See Maniscalco v. Comm’r, 632 F.2d 6, 8 (6th Cir.

1980) (noting that the allowable deduction for ordinary income property is limited

to the donor’s cost basis in such property); Glen v. Comm’r, 79 T.C. 208, 211-12

(1982) (recognizing that the effect of § 170(e)(1)(A) is to limit the allowable

deduction for the donation of a non-capital asset to the taxpayer’s cost or basis in the

property). In other words, if a Taxpayer has no basis in a piece of property, the

gross and net return on a hypothetical sale of that property would be the same, i.e.,

                                           5
the full sale price.   Thus, unless the property was a long term capital asset,

§ 170(e)(1)(A) would require that the deduction for donating that property be

reduced by the property’s entire value—leaving the taxpayer with no deduction at

all.

       Two requirements must be met to claim a deduction for long term capital gain.

First, a taxpayer must prove he has owned the donated property for more than one

year. 3 See 26 U.S.C. § 1222(3) (defining “long term capital gain” as the “gain from

the sale or exchange of a capital asset held for more than [one] year”). Second, the

donated property must meet the statutory definition of a capital asset. See 26 U.S.C.

§ 1221(a) (defining “capital asset” as “property held by the taxpayer (whether or not

connected with his trade or business)”). Section 1221 of the IRC excludes five

specific classes of property from its broad definition of capital asset. See Arkansas

Best Corp. v. Comm’r, 485 U.S. 212, 215-16 (1988). The only exclusion relevant

to our inquiry is the following:

       a copyright, a literary, musical, or artistic composition, a letter or
       memorandum, or similar property, held by–
            (A) a taxpayer whose personal efforts created such property,
            (B) in the case of a letter, memorandum, or similar property, a
            taxpayer for whom such property was prepared or produced, or
            (C) a taxpayer in whose hands the basis of such property is
            determined, for purposes of determining gain from a sale or
            exchange, in whole or part by reference to the basis of such
            property in the hands of a taxpayer described in subparagraph (A)

       3
        Because we hold that the donated discovery material is not a capital
asset, we need not decide whether Taxpayer (1) owned the discovery material,
and (2) whether he owned the material for over one year.

                                         6
             or (B).

26 U.S.C. § 1221(a)(3).

      As noted, the tax court ruled that if Taxpayer owned the discovery material,

it was excluded under the IRC’s definition of capital asset pursuant to 26 U.S.C.

§ 1221(a)(3)(A). Specifically, the tax court held that the discovery material qualified

as “letters, memoranda, or similar property created by the taxpayer’s own efforts.”

Jones v. Comm’r, 129 T.C. 146, 159 (2007).            The record, however, clearly

demonstrates—and the Commissioner appears to concede—that the property which

Taxpayer claimed as a charitable contribution was not created by his own personal

efforts. Thus, we believe the tax court incorrectly applied § 1221(a)(3)(A) to the

discovery material. 4 Nevertheless, for the reasons articulated below, we hold that

§ 1221(a)(3)(B) encompasses the discovery material donated by Taxpayer, thereby

excluding it from the IRC’s definition of capital asset. Accordingly, we affirm the

tax court’s ruling, albeit on alternative grounds. See Combs v. Shelter Mut. Ins. Co.,

551 F.3d 991, 996 (10th Cir. 2008) (noting that we are free to affirm on any grounds

with a sufficient record to permit conclusions of law, even on grounds not relied

upon by the trial court).

      4
         The tax court’s primary ruling that Taxpayer did not own the discovery
material seems to have confined its interpretation of § 1221(a)(3). Thus, the tax
court determined that the only way Taxpayer could have owned the donated
materials was if the materials constituted attorney work product. Because we find
the discovery material unambiguously falls under § 1221(a)(3)(B)’s exception to
capital asset, we need not reach the question of Taxpayer’s ownership interest in
the discovery material.

                                          7
                                               B.

         Under § 1221(a)(3)(B) of the IRC, property described as a “letter,

memorandum, or similar property” that is “prepared or produced” for a taxpayer, is

excluded from the IRC’s definition of “capital asset.” 26 U.S.C. § 1221(a)(3)(B).

Thus,        the   hypothetical   sale   of   such   property   provides   only   ordinary

income—meaning the allowable income tax deduction for donating the item to

charity is limited to the taxpayer’s basis in the property. See Maniscalco, 632 F.2d

at 8. Because Taxpayer’s lack of basis in the property here is undisputed, the central

question before us is whether the discovery material qualifies as “letter[s],

memorand[a], or similar property, [held by] a taxpayer for whom such property was

prepared or produced.” 26 U.S.C. § 1221(a)(3)(B). 5 If the answer is yes, Taxpayer

cannot claim an income tax deduction for donating the discovery material.

         The starting point for interpreting § 1221(a)(3)(B) is the statute’s plain

language. See Chicksaw Nation v. United States, 208 F.3d 871, 876 (10th Cir.

2000). The words of the statute must be construed in their ordinary and everyday

sense.       See id. “If the terms of the statute are clear and unambiguous, they are

controlling absent rare and exceptional circumstances.” Id.

         The items Taxpayer donated consisted of copies of FBI memoranda, lab

reports, computer discs, and photographs—all containing information related to the

         5
         We note that the Commissioner originally argued before the tax court that
the discovery material falls within the § 1221(a)(3)(B) exception. The
Commissioner reasserts this argument on appeal.

                                               8
investigation and prosecution of Timothy McVeigh. In addition, the discovery

material included letters to Taxpayer from the FBI and the Department of Justice

explaining the contents of the material. We have no trouble concluding, therefore,

nor does Taxpayer seriously contest, that the discovery material is properly

characterized as “letter[s], memorand[a], or similar property.” 26 U.S.C.

§ 1221(a)(3)(B).

      We next consider whether the material was “prepared or produced” for

Taxpayer. The dictionary is a helpful basis for determining the plain and ordinary

meaning of a statute’s terms. See Chicksaw, 208 F.3d at 876. Webster defines

“prepare” as “to make ready beforehand for some purpose, use, or activity.”

Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary (2009) (Webster).           Similarly, the Oxford

English Dictionary defines “prepare” as “[t]o bring into a suitable condition for some

future action or purpose; to make ready in advance; to fit out, equip.” Oxford

English Dictionary Online (2009) (Oxford). Webster defines “produce” as “to offer

to view or notice.” Webster, supra. Likewise, Oxford defines “produce” as “[t]o

bring forward or out, to present to view or notice; to show or provide (something)

for consideration, inspection, or use; to exhibit.” Oxford, supra.

      Taxpayer argues that the discovery material does not fall under

§ 1221(a)(3)(B) because it was not produced specifically for him. Admittedly, the

discovery material was not originally created for Taxpayer’s benefit. Rather, the

Government first compiled the material to assist in its investigation and prosecution

                                          9
of McVeigh. Nevertheless, we believe the discovery material falls under 28 U.S.C.

§ 1221(a)(3)(B)’s plain language.      The Government made numerous copies of

memoranda, investigative reports, photographs, etc., specifically for Taxpayer.

Subsequently, they organized and categorized all the material for the benefit of

Taxpayer and his client. The Government then placed the discovery material in

banker’s boxes and prepared letters for Taxpayer explaining the contents of each

box. Clearly, the discovery material was “br[ought] into a suitable condition,”

Oxford, supra, and “made ready” for Taxpayer’s future use. Webster, supra. The

Government then produced the discovery material for Taxpayer, i.e., the Government

“offered,” Webster, supra, or “present[ed]” the material to Taxpayer for his “view,”

“consideration,” and “use” in representing McVeigh. Oxford, supra.

      We note that the discovery material was provided to Taxpayer only because

of his position as lead counsel for McVeigh, and it was the type of material typically

produced for defense counsel in the course of a criminal trial. See Morrison v.

Comm’r, 71 T.C. 683, 689 (1979) (holding that letters, memoranda, and similar

property prepared by third parties and delivered to a Congressman were prepared or

produced for a legislator as part of his duties, and, therefore, were excluded from the

IRC’s definition of capital asset). Further, while not critical to the outcome here, our

conclusion is supported by the Supreme Court’s suggestion that the IRC’s capital

asset exclusions should be construed broadly. See Corn Products Refining Co. v.

Comm’r, 350 U.S. 46, 52 (1955) (indicating that the exclusions to the definition of

                                          10
capital asset should be interpreted broadly); see also Arkansas Best, 485 U.S. at 223

(recognizing that Corn Products involved a broad reading of the § 1221(a)(1)

inventory exception to the definition of capital asset); Watkins, 447 F.3d at 1271-72

(noting courts’ reticence in treating property as a capital asset when it is more

properly characterized as ordinary income).

      Accordingly, we hold that the discovery material donated by Taxpayer falls

within the plain language of 26 U.S.C. § 1221(a)(3)(B)—thereby limiting the

charitable deduction amount to Taxpayer’s basis in the property. See Morrison, 71

T.C. at 689 (holding that a Congressman’s charitable contribution deduction for

letters, memoranda, and similar property provided to him by third parties during the

course of his legislative duties was limited to his basis in the property). Because

Taxpayer had no basis in the discovery material, he is precluded from claiming any

income tax deduction for his charitable donation.

      For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the tax court is AFFIRMED.




                                         11
