                         NOT RECOMMENDED FOR PUBLICATION
                                File Name: 25a0549n.06

                                           No. 25-3190

                          UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
                               FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT
                                                                                        FILED
 ICG KNOTT COUNTY, LLC,           )                                                   Dec 01, 2025
                                  )                                           KELLY L. STEPHENS, Clerk
      Petitioner,                 )
                                  )
              v.                  )                      ON PETITION FOR REVEIW FROM
                                  )                      THE BENEFITS REVIEW BOARD
 DIRECTOR, OFFICE OF WORKERS’ )
 COMPENSATION      PROGRAMS, U.S. )                                                     OPINION
 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR; JAMIE )
 HAMILTON,                        )
      Respondents.                )


Before: SUTTON, Chief Judge; MURPHY and BLOOMEKATZ, Circuit Judges.

       BLOOMEKATZ, Circuit Judge. ICG Knott County, LLC, a coal mine operator, petitions

for review of a Benefits Review Board decision affirming its liability for benefits to Jamie

Hamilton under the Black Lung Benefits Act. Because ICG failed to rebut the regulatory

presumption that Hamilton’s disability arose out of his employment with ICG, we deny the petition

for review.

       Jamie Hamilton worked for over 14 years as a coal miner, including for ICG. After leaving

ICG, he worked for over a decade as a mine inspector for the Department of Labor’s Mine Safety

and Health Administration (the Administration). The Administration sent Hamilton to get a

physical every three years while he worked there, and in 2019 his doctor informed him he had

complicated pneumoconiosis, also known as black lung disease. At this point, the Administration

told him he could no longer work there due to the deterioration of his lungs. So Hamilton petitioned
No. 25-3190, ICG Knott Cnty., LLC v. OWCP et al.


the Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs for benefits under the

Black Lung Benefits Act (the Act).

       The Act provides benefits to coal miners who become disabled due to pneumoconiosis.

Incoal, Inc. v. Dir., Off. of Workers’ Comp. Programs, U.S. Dep’t of Labor, 123 F.4th 808, 813

(6th Cir. 2024). A claimant is eligible for benefits when they demonstrate that they are (1) a coal

miner (2) who suffers from pneumoconiosis, (3) which arose out of their coal mine employment,

(4) causing (5) total disability. Id. at 813–14 (citing 20 C.F.R. § 725.202(d)). The most recent coal

mine operator for which the claimant worked is generally responsible for paying out the claimant’s

benefits. 20 C.F.R. § 725.495(a)(1). But, as relevant here, an employer is only liable if “[t]he

miner’s disability or death arose at least in part out of” the claimant’s employment.

Id. § 725.494(a).

       In proceedings before an administrative law judge (ALJ), ICG did not dispute that it was

the most recent coal mine operator that Hamilton worked for as a coal miner.1 Nor did it dispute

that Hamilton has pneumoconiosis or that he is totally disabled. Thus, the key issue in the

administrative proceeding was whether Hamilton’s pneumoconiosis arose out of his employment

with ICG.2

       The regulatory framework establishes a rebuttable presumption that a miner’s

pneumoconiosis arose out of their employment with an operator. Id. Despite this, ICG urged the

ALJ to rule that it was not liable for Hamilton’s pneumoconiosis since his diagnosis came nearly

a decade after he left its employment. The ALJ disagreed, explaining that pneumoconiosis is “a


       1
          The Administration, as an agency of the United States, is not a mine “operator” that can
be held liable under this regulatory scheme. 20 C.F.R. § 725.491(f).
       2
         ICG also contended before the ALJ that Hamilton’s claim for benefits was untimely. But
it does not renew this argument on appeal.


                                                    -2-
No. 25-3190, ICG Knott Cnty., LLC v. OWCP et al.


latent and progressive disease,” so “a coal miner’s exposure to coal mine dust may cause,

contribute to, or aggravate the progression or advancement of his pneumoconiosis before the

disease is detectable.” J.A., R. 10, 188 (citation modified). And because ICG offered no other

affirmative evidence to disclaim its role in causing Hamilton’s disability, the ALJ determined that

it was liable to pay his benefits. The Benefits Review Board (the Board) affirmed, and ICG timely

petitioned this court for review.

       We review the ALJ’s decision—not the Board’s—for whether it was supported by

substantial evidence. Cent. Ohio Coal Co. v. Dir., Off. of Workers’ Comp. Programs, 762 F.3d

483, 488 (6th Cir. 2014). Where there are legal conclusions, by either the ALJ or the Board, we

review those de novo. Id. The substantial evidence standard merely requires sufficient evidence

such that a “reasonable mind might accept [it] as adequate to support a conclusion.” Id. (citation

modified).

       On appeal, ICG again argues that it is not liable because Hamilton was not diagnosed with

pneumoconiosis until many years after his employment with ICG ended.3 It contends that, because

“no black lung disease was found” when the Administration first tested Hamilton after he retired

from ICG, this evidence rebuts the presumption that Hamilton’s pneumoconiosis arose in whole

or in part from his work at ICG. Pet’r Br. at 14. But regardless of when pneumoconiosis is detected,

the burden was not on Hamilton, or the government, to prove ICG caused Hamilton’s disease.

Rather, the burden was on ICG to prove “that the coal mine employment played no part in causing

the total disability.” Big Branch Res., Inc. v. Ogle, 737 F.3d 1063, 1071 (6th Cir. 2013).




       3
         The parties dispute whether the ALJ and Board erred in considering Hamilton’s testimony
as support for ICG’s position. We assume ICG could rely on this testimony because it makes no
difference to the outcome.


                                                    -3-
No. 25-3190, ICG Knott Cnty., LLC v. OWCP et al.


       That the diagnosis came years after Hamilton’s employment with ICG ended does not

prove his employment with ICG played no part in causing his disability. Nor does the fact that

pneumoconiosis was not found when Hamilton was tested after leaving ICG. The ALJ correctly

explained that the regulations “recognize pneumoconiosis as ‘a latent and progressive disease.’”

J.A., R. 10, 188 (quoting 20 C.F.R. § 718.201(c)). More specifically, the regulations note that

pneumoconiosis “may first become detectable only after the cessation of coal mine dust exposure.”

20 C.F.R. § 718.201(c)). ICG proffered no expert testimony to dispute this point, nor to rebut the

presumption on any other grounds. Cf. Incoal, 123 F.4th at 821–22 (collecting cases rejecting

petitions for review even where operators did proffer medical expert testimony). So, while

Hamilton’s pneumoconiosis seemingly only manifested after additional years of exposure to coal

dust, this does not preclude a determination that earlier exposure also contributed to the disease’s

development. Thus, the ALJ adequately responded to ICG’s argument in noting the disease’s latent

and progressive nature. A “reasonable mind” could have come to the same conclusion as the ALJ,

which is the full extent of our review. Id. at 820 (citation modified).

                                          CONCLUSION

       We deny the petition for review.




                                                     -4-
