                 FOR PUBLICATION

   UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
        FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

JOHNNIE FUSON,                            No. 23-15747

              Plaintiff-Appellant,       D.C. No. 3:21-cv-
                                           08237-DJH
 v.

OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI                   OPINION
INDIAN RELOCATION, an
Administrative Agency of the United
States,

              Defendant-Appellee.

      Appeal from the United States District Court
                for the District of Arizona
      Diane J. Humetewa, District Judge, Presiding

          Argued and Submitted April 8, 2024
                  Phoenix, Arizona

                  Filed April 16, 2025

  Before: Michael Daly Hawkins, Bridget S. Bade, and
           Roopali H. Desai, Circuit Judges.

                Opinion by Judge Desai;
                 Dissent by Judge Bade
2    FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION


                          SUMMARY *


                 Navajo-Hopi Settlement Act

    The panel reversed the district court’s decision
upholding the denial of Johnnie Fuson’s application for
relocation assistance benefits under the Navajo-Hopi
Settlement Act.
    Fuson, a registered member of the Navajo Tribe, was
forced to relocate from his family’s home following the
partition of the Joint Use Area. The Office of Navajo and
Hopi Indian Relocation denied his initial application, and on
appeal the Independent Hearing Office (“IHO”) deemed
Fuson ineligible for benefits.
    The panel held that the IHO’s adverse credibility
findings     were    not    supported      by     substantial
evidence. Generally, the IHO found every witness not
credible because, according to the IHO, they were
inconsistent with the other witnesses, who the IHO also
deemed not credible. This circular reasoning created a
catch-22 that guaranteed an adverse credibility finding as to
every witness. Reviewing the individual credibility
findings, the panel held that substantial evidence did not
support the IHO’s adverse credibility findings as to Johnnie
Fuson, Johnnie’s brother Benny Fuson, and his cousin
Margery Greyhair.
   The panel held that the IHO’s finding that Johnnie was
not a resident of the Hopi Partitioned Lands (“HPL”)

*
 This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
    FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION     3


homesite was arbitrary and capricious. The IHO erred in
relying almost exclusively on the Bureau of Indian Affairs
enumeration roster to conclude that Johnnie was a resident
of the Navajo Partitioned Lands or Seba Dalkai, rather than
the HPL. The IHO did not take into account, or otherwise
address, the enumerator’s contrary testimony about the
roster’s reliability. The panel remanded for further
proceedings.
    Dissenting, Judge Bade disagreed with the majority’s
conclusion that the IHO’s adverse credibility determination
with respect to Johnnie Fuson was not supported by
substantial evidence. Even if all the testimony were deemed
credible, that does not undermine the IHO’s residency
determination such that it is not supported by substantial
evidence. Because the evidence relevant to Johnnie’s
eligibility for relocation benefits was, at best, ambiguous and
inconclusive, the court must defer to the agency’s findings
and conclusions.


                         COUNSEL

S. Barry Paisner (argued), Hinkle Shanor LLP, Santa Fe,
New Mexico; Susan I. Eastman, Navajo-Hopi Legal
Services Program, Tuba City, Arizona; for Plaintiff-
Appellant.
Katelin Shugart-Schmidt (argued) and John E. Arbab,
Attorneys, Environment & Natural Resources Division,
Appellate Section; Todd Kim, Assistant Attorney General;
United States Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
Katherine R. Branch and William Staes, Assistant United
States Attorneys, Office of the United States Attorney,
United States Department of Justice, Phoenix, Arizona;
4   FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION


Larry Ruzow, Attorney, Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian
Relocation, Flagstaff, Arizona; for Defendant-Appellee.



                         OPINION

DESAI, Circuit Judge:

    Nearly forty years after Johnnie Fuson, a registered
member of the Navajo tribe, was forced to relocate from his
family’s home following the partition of the Joint Use Area
(“JUA”), he was finally provided the opportunity to apply
for relocation assistance benefits. The Office of Navajo and
Hopi Indian Relocation (“ONHIR”) denied his initial
application and Johnnie appealed the decision to the
Independent Hearing Officer (“IHO”). On appeal, Johnnie
presented witnesses and evidence to piece together his
family’s history to prove eligibility for benefits. Without
providing sufficient reasoning or considering material
evidence in his decision, the IHO deemed Johnnie ineligible
for benefits. We hold that the IHO’s adverse credibility
findings are not supported by substantial evidence and that
his residency finding is arbitrary and capricious. We thus
reverse and remand for further proceedings consistent with
this opinion.
                     BACKGROUND
I. Relocation benefits became available as part of the
   Settlement Act.
    In 1882, the President of the United States executed an
executive order establishing a reservation in northeastern
Arizona for the Hopi tribe and other tribes that the Secretary
of the Interior decided to settle on those lands. Sekaquaptewa
    FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION     5


v. MacDonald, 626 F.2d 113, 114 (9th Cir. 1980). As a
result, members of the Navajo tribe settled in this area
alongside members of the Hopi tribe. After co-existing on
the reservation for seventy-five years, a dispute arose
between the Hopi and Navajo tribes over who had ownership
of the land. Bedoni v. Navajo-Hopi Indian Relocation
Comm’n, 878 F.2d 1119, 1121 (9th Cir. 1989). The Arizona
district court tried to resolve the dispute by determining that
the tribes held joint, undivided, and equal interest in five-
sixths of the reservation, referred to as the JUA. Healing v.
Jones, 210 F. Supp 125, 132 (D. Ariz. 1962), aff’d per
curiam 373 U.S. 758 (1963). But conflict persisted, and
Congress eventually enacted the Navajo-Hopi Settlement
Act (“Settlement Act”) to partition the JUA between the
Navajo and Hopi tribes. Bedoni, 878 F.2d at 1121. Pursuant
to the Settlement Act, the Arizona district court delineated
the Hopi Partitioned Lands (“HPL”) and the Navajo
Partitioned Lands (“NPL”). Id. This court approved the
partition in Sekaquaptewa, 626 F.2d 113, and individuals
residing on land partitioned to the tribe they were not a
member of were required to relocate from their homes. See
25 U.S.C. § 640d-13(a) (1988) (“Consistent with section
640d-7 . . . or 640d-3 of this title, the Commissioner is
authorized and directed to relocate . . . all households and
members thereof and their personal property . . . from any
lands partitioned to the tribe of which they are not
members.”).
    As part of the relocation process, the Settlement Act
allocated funds to provide eligible tribal members with
benefits for relocating and to create ONHIR, a federal
agency, to administer the Settlement Act. See 25 C.F.R.
§ 700.138. To qualify for benefits, an applicant had to show
that (1) he was a resident of the land partitioned to the tribe
6       FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION


he was not a member of on December 22, 1974; and (2) he
was head of household as of the date he moved away from
the land partitioned to the other tribe. Id. §§ 700.147(a)–(b),
700.69(c).
II. Johnnie and his family were longtime residents of the
    JUA.
    Johnnie was born in 1944 and raised by his grandmother,
Fannie Greyhair. His grandmother owned two homesites
within the JUA, and their family grazed their livestock
seasonally between the two homesites. In the early 1970s,
Johnnie and his family spent much of their time at the
homesite called Lukai Springs and considered it their
primary residence.
    In 1971, Johnnie married Ruth Begay. Johnnie did not
consistently co-habitate with Ruth, who lived and worked at
Seba Dalkai School 1 (“Seba Dalkai”), and the couple
separated a few years later. The couple had four children
together between 1972 and 1976 and officially divorced in
1978. Johnnie also worked during this time, but there is
conflicting testimony as to the nature of his work.
    After the JUA was partitioned on December 22, 1974,
one of the family’s homesites became part of the NPL, and
Lukai Springs became part of the HPL. Pursuant to the
Settlement Act, Lukai Springs now belonged to the Hopi
tribe, and Johnnie’s family was required to relocate. Around
this time, the Bureau of Indian Affairs (“BIA”) conducted a
survey of Navajo and Hopi residents in the JUA. Bahe v.
ONHIR, No. 17-08016, 2017 WL 6618872, at *4 n.1 (D.
Ariz. Dec. 28, 2017). After taking aerial photos of the JUA
to identify the locations of structures, the BIA traveled to

1
    Seba Dalkai is located outside of the HPL.
     FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION              7


each structure to interview the residents and compiled the
information into the BIA enumeration roster. Id. According
to the BIA enumeration roster, Fannie Greyhair was
interviewed at both of her homesites. In January 1975, she
was interviewed at her NPL homesite. Fannie is listed as
head of household and Johnnie as one of the family
members. 2 In January 1975 and April 1975, Fannie was
interviewed at the HPL homesite. Fannie is listed as the head
of household, and no other family members are listed.
    As part of their relocation process, Johnnie’s family also
began selling their livestock through the government’s
livestock reduction program. Sometime after April 1974, the
family finished selling all their livestock and moved away
from Lukai Springs.
III. Johnnie applied for relocation benefits and
     appealed the denial of his application.
    Based on his residence at his grandmother’s HPL
homesite, Johnnie applied for relocation benefits in 2010.
ONHIR denied his application, and Johnnie appealed the
decision. In support of his appeal, Johnnie testified and
presented his cousin, Margery Greyhair, and his brother,
Benny Fuson, as witnesses. He also provided transcripts of a
former BIA enumerator’s deposition and his ex-wife’s
testimony at her relocation benefits hearing. 3 In her
deposition testimony, the former BIA enumerator explained
the BIA’s surveying process. When asked how BIA


2
  The parties stipulate that Johnnie established head of household status
for purposes of his relocation benefits application.
3
  Johnnie’s ex-wife, Ruth Begay, was granted relocation benefits based
on her family’s HPL residence, and the parties stipulate that Johnnie’s
claim is based only on Fannie’s homesites.
8   FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION


enumerators addressed the ownership of multiple homesites,
she explained that survey participants were asked to select a
primary homesite, which would list all the owner’s family
members. Then, to avoid overcounting the total number of
people in the JUA, only the owner would be listed at the
secondary homesite. This was the case even if the family
members spent equal amounts of time at each homesite. In
other words, the roster did not always accurately report
where a family spent their time.
    The IHO denied Johnnie’s appeal. The IHO first found
that Johnnie, Benny, and Margery were not credible
witnesses. In part, the IHO’s adverse credibility findings
were based on the inconsistency between the witnesses’
testimonies, despite finding each witness not credible. He
further found Margery’s testimony “highly suspect” due to
the passage of time. Then, the IHO concluded that Johnnie
was not entitled to relocation benefits because there was no
credible evidence in the record to find that Johnnie was a
legal resident of Fannie’s HPL homesite on December 22,
1974. Instead, the IHO concluded that Johnnie was a legal
resident of the NPL homesite or Seba Dalkai. According to
the IHO, the presence of Johnnie’s family members at Seba
Dalkai was an “overpowering determinant,” as well as the
fact that the BIA enumeration roster identified Johnnie at the
NPL homesite. But the IHO failed to discuss testimony from
Johnnie’s ex-wife and the BIA enumerator that cut against
his conclusion.
    Johnnie filed an appeal in the district court challenging
the denial of benefits under 25 C.F.R. § 700.147. Both
parties filed motions for summary judgment. The district
court affirmed ONHIR’s denial of benefits, denied Johnnie’s
motion for summary judgment, and granted ONHIR’s cross-
motion for summary judgment. It found that substantial
    FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION   9


evidence supported the IHO’s adverse credibility findings,
and that the IHO’s decision was not arbitrary and capricious
based on his use of the BIA enumeration evidence and
failure to apply the customary use area policy.
               STANDARD OF REVIEW
    We review a district court’s decision to grant summary
judgment de novo. Bedoni, 878 F.2d at 1122. Under the
Administrative Procedure Act, we must determine if
ONHIR’s decision was “arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of
discretion, not in accordance with law, or unsupported by
substantial evidence.” Id. (citing 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A),
2(E)).
                        ANALYSIS
I. The IHO’s credibility findings are not supported by
   substantial evidence.
     Our review of the IHO’s credibility findings is
deferential but not toothless. The IHO’s credibility findings
are granted deference because it is “in a position to observe
[a witness]’s tone and demeanor, to explore inconsistencies
in testimony, and to apply workable and consistent standards
in the evaluation of testimonial evidence.” Sarvia-
Quintanilla v. I.N.S., 767 F.2d 1387, 1395 (9th Cir. 1985).
But deference does not absolve the IHO from his
responsibility to provide sufficient reasoning for his
decision, particularly where the IHO claims he has grounds
for disbelieving material testimony. See Ceguerra v. Sec’y
of Health & Hum. Servs., 933 F.2d 735, 740 (9th Cir. 1991).
Thus, when an IHO’s decision “rests on a negative
credibility evaluation,” he “must make findings on the
record and must support those findings by pointing to
substantial evidence on the record.” Id. at 738 (emphasis
10   FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION


added). Substantial evidence exists when there is “more than
a mere scintilla” of relevant evidence such that a “reasonable
mind might accept [it] as adequate to support a conclusion.”
Biestek v. Berryhill, 587 U.S. 97, 97 (2019) (quoting Consol.
Edison Co. of N.Y. v. N.L.R.B., 305 U.S. 197, 229 (1938)).
     Before assessing the individual credibility findings, we
first address a troublesome aspect of the IHO’s analysis
overall. The IHO found every witness not credible because,
according to the IHO, they were inconsistent with the other
witnesses, who the IHO also deemed not credible. In other
words, the IHO concluded that a witness was not credible by
comparing that witness’s testimony to another witness’s
testimony, but then also found the comparator witness’s
testimony not credible because it was inconsistent with the
first witness’s testimony. This circular reasoning created a
catch-22 that guaranteed an adverse credibility finding as to
every witness. Indeed, while the IHO apparently found each
witness credible enough to discredit another witness, he
declined to use their testimonies to support Johnnie’s
eligibility claims. We generally disagree with the IHO’s
flawed approach, but nevertheless review each credibility
finding separately.
    First, the IHO concluded in a single sentence that “Benny
Fuson’s testimony is confusing, conflicting and inconsistent
with other witnesses and his testimony is not credible.” But
the IHO does not point to any inconsistency in the record or
otherwise explain how Benny’s testimony is confusing.
Furthermore, the IHO’s rationale relies on Benny’s
inconsistency with the other not credible witnesses. Thus,
substantial evidence does not support the IHO’s adverse
credibility finding as to Benny.
     FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION              11


     Second, the IHO concluded that Margery was not
credible because (1) her testimony was confusing and
inconsistent with Johnnie and Benny’s testimonies and
(2) “her 40-year-old recollections as an 11-year-old child are
highly suspect.” Again, the IHO does not identify any
specific inconsistency. Nor does he point to other evidence
to explain how Margery’s testimony was confusing. And by
relying on comparisons to Johnnie and Benny’s testimonies,
the IHO’s reasoning here suffers from the same circular and
flawed logic explained above. Similarly, the IHO’s
perfunctory conclusion that Margery’s young age at the time
of the events and the subsequent passage of time rendered
her recollections “highly suspect” also lacks support in the
record. 4 The IHO’s adverse credibility finding as to Margery
is thus also unsupported by substantial evidence.
    Third, the IHO found Johnnie not credible for several
reasons. The IHO discounted Johnnie’s testimony about
residing on the HPL because of his family’s residence at
Seba Dalkai and his identification by the BIA as living on
the NPL. But despite his family’s residence at Seba Dalkai,
Johnnie and his ex-wife both testified that he did not
consistently live at Seba Dalkai. In addition, the BIA
enumerator’s testimony explained that being listed at one
homesite on the enumeration roster was not necessarily
indicative of a person’s residence. Taking this testimony into
account, the enumeration roster cannot negate Johnnie’s
testimony about residing on the HPL. Thus, the IHO’s



4
   And because the relocation benefits eligibility criteria require
applicants to recount events from decades ago, if the passage of time was
a legitimate basis for adverse credibility, every witness who testifies in
support of an applicant would be not credible. This cannot be the case.
12      FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION


decision to discredit Johnnie’s testimony is unsupported by
substantial evidence.
    The IHO also found Johnnie not credible because,
according to the IHO, Johnnie “downplayed his residence at
Seba Dalkai” because his ex-wife became pregnant in 1971,
1973, 1975, and 1976. 5 In other words, the IHO did not
believe Johnnie’s testimony that he only resided at Seba
Dalkai “on and off” during the relevant time period, because
he had four children with his ex-wife during that time. But
the record does not support the IHO’s conclusion. Not only
did Johnnie testify that he lived at Seba Dalkai “on and off,”
but the record also includes his ex-wife’s testimony at her
benefits hearing that Johnnie did not stay at Seba Dalkai
regularly. Johnnie’s ex-wife’s testimony bolsters rather than
undermines his credibility. Regardless, the IHO’s reasoning
is deeply flawed because it is based on the erroneous
assumption that Johnnie must have continuously co-
habitated with his ex-wife to have four children over the
course of five years. The IHO does not provide any other
basis to find that Johnnie downplayed his residence at Seba
Dalkai. Thus, this basis for discrediting Johnnie is erroneous.
    Then, the IHO concluded that Johnnie was not credible
because he had a “distorted view about the Act’s
requirements for legal residence.” The IHO does not point to
any part of Johnnie’s testimony to support this observation,
nor are we able to find any. Moreover, even if there was
evidence showing Johnnie misunderstood the Act’s
requirements, there is no rational connection between an
applicant’s failure to understand a statute and his ability to



5
    The children were born in 1972, 1974, 1975, and 1976.
    FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION   13


testify truthfully. The IHO erred by discounting Johnnie’s
credibility on this basis.
    The last reason the IHO provided for finding Johnnie not
credible was his inconsistency with the other witnesses. In
support of this position, the IHO pointed to two specific
examples: (1) that Johnnie identified the structures at the
HPL homesite differently than Margery; and (2) that
Johnnie’s testimony about his employment differed from
Margery’s recollection. But the IHO also found Margery not
credible. It is thus difficult to understand how and why
Johnnie’s inconsistent testimony with Margery, a witness
found to be not credible, could lead the IHO to conclude that
Johnnie was also not credible. Indeed, the IHO’s circular
logic raises serious questions about whether a “reasonable
mind might accept [this ground] as adequate to support” the
IHO’s adverse credibility finding. Biestek, 587 U.S. at 97.
We thus cannot defer to the IHO’s finding.
    In conclusion, we reverse the IHO’s adverse credibility
findings as to Benny, Margery, and Johnnie because they are
unsupported by substantial evidence.
II. The IHO’s finding that Johnnie was not a resident of
    the HPL homesite is arbitrary and capricious.
    To be eligible for relocation benefits, an applicant must
show that (1) he was a legal resident of land partitioned to
the tribe he was not a member of on December 22, 1974, and
(2) he was a head of household at the time he moved away
from the land partitioned to the other tribe. 25 C.F.R.
§§ 700.147(a), (b), (e), 700.69(c). Determining residence
“requires an examination of the person’s intent to reside
14   FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION


combined with manifestations of that intent.” 6 49 Fed. Reg.
22277, 22277 (May 29, 1984). The IHO may consider
several factors, including:

         Ownership of livestock, Ownership of
         improvements, Grazing Permits, Livestock
         sales receipts, Homesite leases, Public health
         records, Medical and Hospital records,
         including those of Medicinemen, Trading
         Post records, School records, Military
         records, Employment records, Mailing
         Address records, Banking records, Drivers
         license records, Voting records—tribal and
         county, Home ownership or rental off the
         disputed area, BIA Census Data, Information
         obtained by Certification Field Investigation,
         Social Security Administration records,
         Marital records, Court records, Records of
         Birth, Joint Use Area Roster, any other
         relevant data.

Id. at 22278. Here, the IHO found that Johnnie was a resident
of the NPL or Seba Dalkai, rather than the HPL. In support
of this finding, the IHO said that Johnnie’s ex-wife’s
testimony that she and the children lived at Seba Dalkai was
an “overpowering determinant” that Johnnie did not reside
at the HPL. The IHO also cited to the BIA enumeration
roster, which listed Johnnie as one of Fannie’s family
members at the NPL homesite. But the IHO did not take into

6
 Relying on principles of domicile, Johnnie argues that this court should
use a burden-shifting framework to assess legal residence, but ONHIR
regulations clearly state that “[t]he burden of proving residence and head
of household status is on the applicant.” 25 C.F.R. § 700.147(b).
     FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION                 15


account or otherwise address the enumerator’s contrary
testimony about the roster’s reliability. Johnnie argues that
the IHO’s reliance on the BIA enumeration roster renders the
IHO’s residency finding arbitrary and capricious. 7 We agree.
     The IHO relied almost exclusively on the BIA
enumeration roster to conclude that Johnnie was a resident
of the NPL or Seba Dalkai, rather than the HPL, because it
listed Johnnie as a resident of the NPL homesite in January
1975. Indeed, ONHIR’s counsel conceded at oral argument
that the IHO relied on only two pieces of evidence for his
residency finding: the BIA enumeration roster and Johnnie’s
ex-wife’s testimony. 8 And only the BIA enumeration roster
actually refers to the NPL homesite. But the IHO failed to
consider or address other evidence that undermined the

7
 Johnnie also argues that the IHO’s decision is arbitrary and capricious
because the IHO failed to apply ONHIR’s customary use area policy.
Because we reverse on other grounds, we need not reach this second
argument.
8
  The dissent argues that the IHO’s residency determination should be
affirmed because Johnnie and his family completed the sale of their
livestock under the BIA livestock reduction program before December
22, 1974, and moved from the HPL homesite. Dissent at 18, 22, 24–27.
Not so. Although Johnnie testified that the livestock reduction began in
1974 and he moved to the NPL homesite after the livestock reduction
was completed, he never testified as to when the family sold all their
livestock. But the record supports that it was after 1974. For example,
Johnnie testified that he did not “move out” in 1974. And Benny
specifically testified that the first livestock reduction took place in 1974,
and the second livestock reduction may have taken place in 1975, and
afterwards, “all the livestock were gone.” In fact, the dissent
acknowledges the conflicts in the testimony and the uncertainty
regarding the “specific dates of the program and the family’s move from
HPL.” Dissent at 25–27. Thus, contrary to the dissent’s assertion,
substantial evidence does not support the IHO’s findings that Johnnie did
not reside at the HPL homesite on December 22, 1974.
16   FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION


IHO’s reliance on the roster. For example, the BIA
enumerator testified that, where families owned multiple
homesites, the roster would only list all family members at
one homesite, regardless of how much time any family
member spent at each. This testimony suggests that the BIA
enumeration roster alone is not reliable because it reveals
little about an applicant’s residency at one homesite versus
the other. It also explains why the roster may not have listed
Johnnie at the HPL homesite, even though he claims the
HPL as his residence. Ignoring all of this, the IHO
summarily treated the enumeration roster as dispositive
evidence of Johnnie’s residence at the NPL. By neglecting
to engage with the critical testimony in his decision, the IHO
failed “to reasonably consider[] the relevant issues and
reasonably explain[]” his decision. Fed. Commc’ns
Comm’n. v. Prometheus Radio Project, 592 U.S. 414, 423
(2021). The IHO’s residency finding is therefore arbitrary
and capricious.
                      CONCLUSION
    We conclude that the IHO’s adverse credibility findings
are not supported by substantial evidence and his residency
finding is arbitrary and capricious. We thus reverse and
remand the grant of summary judgment for further
proceedings consistent with this opinion.
     REVERSED AND REMANDED.
     FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION            17


BADE, Circuit Judge, dissenting:

    The majority reverses the Office of Navajo and Hopi
Indian Relocation’s (ONHIR) decision denying relocation
benefits to Johnnie Fuson under the Settlement Act, 25
U.S.C. §§ 640d to 640d-31. The majority concludes that the
Independent Hearing Officer’s (IHO) adverse credibility
findings are not supported by substantial evidence. 1 And
because it finds that the IHO improperly rejected hearing
testimony from Johnnie, his brother Benny Fuson, and his
cousin Margery Greyhair as lacking credibility, the majority
concludes that the IHO’s residency finding is arbitrary and
capricious. Maj. Op. 4, 15–16.
    As an initial matter, I disagree with the majority’s
conclusion that the IHO’s adverse credibility determination
with respect to Johnnie is not supported by substantial
evidence. But more importantly, even if Johnnie’s, Benny’s,
and Margery’s testimony were deemed credible, that

1
  “The Administrative Procedure Act [(APA)] governs judicial review of
agency decisions under the Settlement Act.” Begay v. Off. of Navajo &
Hopi Indian Relocation, 305 F. Supp. 3d 1040, 1045 (D. Ariz. 2018).
Under the APA, courts may set aside an agency decision if it is not
supported by substantial evidence. 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(E). “The phrase
‘substantial evidence’ is a ‘term of art’ used throughout administrative
law to describe how courts are to review agency factfinding.” Biestek v.
Berryhill, 587 U.S. 97, 102 (2019) (quoting T-Mobile South, LLC v.
Roswell, 574 U.S. 293, 301 (2015)). Substantial evidence is “such
relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to
support a conclusion.” Info. Providers’ Coal. for Def. of the First
Amend. v. FCC, 928 F.2d 866, 870 (9th Cir. 1991) (quoting Pierce v.
Underwood, 487 U.S. 552, 565 (1988)); see also Zerezghi v. USCIS, 955
F.3d 802, 814 (9th Cir. 2020) (“It is an extremely lenient standard that
asks courts to consider only whether the administrative record contains
sufficient evidence to support the agency’s factual determinations.”
(internal quotation marks, alterations, and citation omitted)).
18   FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION


testimony does not undermine the IHO’s residency
determination such that it is not supported by substantial
evidence. The IHO, apart from the adverse credibility
determinations, concluded that Johnnie was not eligible for
relocation benefits because his family had sold their
livestock as part of a Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA)
livestock reduction program and no longer resided on his
grandmother Fannie Greyhair’s homesite on the Hopi
Partition Lands (HPL) by December 22, 1974. This
conclusion is supported by Johnnie’s, Benny’s, and
Margery’s testimony and the reasonable inferences drawn
from that testimony.
    And even if a contrary conclusion could also be drawn
from their testimony, the IHO’s residency determination
would still be supported by substantial evidence because it
is the agency’s responsibility to “resolv[e] ambiguities,”
Cal. Pac. Bank v. FDIC, 885 F.3d 560, 570 (9th Cir. 2018)
(citation omitted), and “the possibility of drawing two
inconsistent conclusions from the evidence does not prevent
an administrative agency’s finding from being supported by
substantial evidence,” Consolo v. Fed. Mar. Comm’n, 383
U.S. 607, 620 (1966) (citations omitted). Indeed, “[w]here
evidence is susceptible of more than one rational
interpretation, it is the [agency’s] conclusion which must be
upheld; and in reaching [its] findings, the [agency] is entitled
to draw inferences logically flowing from the evidence.”
Gallant v. Heckler, 753 F.2d 1450, 1453 (9th Cir. 1984)
(citations omitted). I respectfully dissent.
                               I.
    Under the Settlement Act, Johnnie’s eligibility for
relocation benefits depends on the location of his legal
residence on December 22, 1974.         See 25 C.F.R.
     FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION           19


§ 700.147(a) (providing that to be eligible for benefits under
the Settlement Act, “the head of household and/or immediate
family must have been residents on December 22, 1974, of
an area partitioned to the Tribe of which they were not
members”). Therefore, as a member of the Navajo Nation,
Johnnie was required to establish in the ONHIR proceedings
that he resided at his family’s homesite on the HPL on
December 22, 1974. See id. § 700.147(b) (“The burden of
proving residence . . . is on the applicant.”).
    The parties agree that before the enactment of the
Settlement Act, Johnnie’s grandmother, Fannie Greyhair,
had two camps or homesites in the Joint Use Area (JUA).
After the partition, one of these homesites was on the HPL,
and the other was on the Navajo Partition Lands (NPL);
ultimately, Johnnie’s family retained only the homesite on
the NPL. Thus, to determine Johnnie’s eligibility for
relocation benefits, the ONHIR was required to determine
Johnnie’s legal residence on December 22, 1974. And we
must affirm that determination if it is supported by
substantial evidence.
                                  A.
    The IHO concluded that, on December 22, 1974, Johnnie
resided at his family’s NPL homesite, where he was listed as
residing in the BIA’s enumeration roster. 2 Alternatively, the
IHO concluded that Johnnie resided at the Seba Dalkai


2
  The BIA performed a census of the JUA in 1974 and 1975 to document
who lived there and to account for any improvements to the land. Begay,
305 F. Supp. 3d at 1045 n.4. This census is referred to as the
enumeration. 25 C.F.R. § 161.1 (“Enumeration means the list of persons
living on and identified improvements located within the Former [JUA]
obtained through interviews conducted by BIA in 1974 and 1975.”).
20   FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION


School with his wife and children in his wife’s employer-
provided housing.
    The IHO found that Johnnie’s testimony that he resided
at the HPL homesite during this time was not credible
because, among other reasons, he “downplay[ed]” his
residence at Seba Dalkai. The majority rejects this finding
because it concludes that “Johnnie and his ex-wife [Ruth
Begay] both testified that he did not consistently live at Seba
Dalkai,” Maj. Op. 11–12, but it ignores the inconsistencies
between Johnnie’s and Ruth’s testimony on the matter. 3
Ruth testified that Johnnie lived with her at Seba Dalkai
during their first year of marriage, which began in 1971, but
that she often “didn’t see him until late . . . evening after
[she] got off work” because he was “always going
home . . . when [she] went to work.” In contrast, Johnnie
testified that, although he spent time at Seba Dalkai “off and
on,” the only place he resided in 1971 and 1972 was Lukai
Springs (the HPL homesite). 4 This inconsistency supports
the IHO’s finding that Johnnie “downplay[ed] his residence
at Seba Dalkai.” See Parra v. Astrue, 481 F.3d 742, 750 (9th
Cir. 2007) (“Generally, ‘questions of credibility and
resolution of conflicts in the testimony are functions solely’
for the agency.” (quoting Sample v. Schweiker, 694 F.2d
639, 642 (9th Cir. 1982))).
    The IHO also found that Johnnie’s testimony was not
credible in part because he was listed as residing at the NPL
home site in the BIA’s enumeration roster. The majority,

3
  The majority also criticizes the IHO’s reliance on Ruth Begay’s
pregnancies as evidence of Johnnie’s residence, Maj. Op. 12, and I agree
that this portion of the IHO’s reasoning is impermissibly speculative.
4
 Johnnie testified that he continued to live at the HPL homesite in 1973
and 1974.
    FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION   21


however, concludes that the enumeration roster “cannot
negate Johnnie’s testimony about residing on the HPL”
because the BIA enumerator testified that “being listed at
one homesite on the enumeration roster was not necessarily
indicative of a person’s residence.” Maj. Op. 11. But this
reasoning is simply an argument that the IHO should have
weighed the evidence differently. See Begay, 305 F. Supp.
3d at 1049 (“[T]he BIA enumeration alone cannot establish
residence, but it may be used as prima facie evidence of
residency that Plaintiff then has the burden of disproving.”);
see also Commission Operations and Relocation
Procedures; Eligibility, 49 Fed. Reg. 22277, 22278 (May 29,
1984) (listing the “Joint Use Area Roster” as relevant
evidence for residency determination). Here, the IHO drew
reasonable inferences from the BIA enumeration roster,
which, along with other evidence, provided substantial
evidence to support the adverse credibility determination as
to Johnnie and to support the residency determination.
     And even considering the enumerator’s testimony that a
person may be listed at one site despite residing at multiple
sites, Johnnie’s description of his residency conflicted with
the enumeration roster in another way—Johnnie was listed
at the NPL homesite (and Fannie Greyhair, his grandmother,
was listed at both the NPL and the HPL homesites), but he
repeatedly testified that his family did not have any camps
other than the camp at the HPL homesite and that he did not
live anywhere other than the HPL homesite. Although he
acknowledged the existence of a “summer camp” on the
NPL homesite after being shown a map and the enumeration
roster, he continued to assert that there were no homes on the
NPL homesite. He later testified that the “summer camp”
was not on the NPL but was instead in the JUA. In sum, his
testimony on the matter was, at best, ambiguous. Given the
22   FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION


inconsistencies between Johnnie’s testimony and other
evidence, the IHO’s adverse credibility determination as to
Johnnie is supported by substantial evidence. See Cal. Pac.
Bank, 885 F.3d at 570.
                             B.
    I also dissent because the IHO’s decision included
additional findings—specifically, that the family completed
the sale of their livestock and moved to the NPL homesite
before the passage of the Settlement Act—that provide
substantial evidence supporting the determination that
Johnnie did not reside at the HPL homesite on December 22,
1974.
    These findings do not depend on the IHO’s adverse
credibility determinations. Indeed, the IHO explicitly relied
on Margery’s and Benny’s testimony to support his findings
about the livestock reduction program. See Appellant’s
Excerpts of R., Vol. 1, Dkt. 11-2, at 19–20 (Hr’g Officer’s
Oct. 15, 2015, Finding of Facts, Conclusions of Law, and
Decision) (“[I]f Margery Greyhair and Benny Fuson are to
be believed, by the time of the passage of the [Settlement]
Act, the Lukai Spring home [HPL homesite] was vacated as
Fannie Greyhair’s livestock had been sold through the
Livestock Reduction Program . . . .”); id. at 17 (finding that
Margery “testified about the livestock reductions at which
Fannie [Greyhair] sold livestock, and she testified about the
family’s move to the NPL camp following Reduction”); id.
at 15 (finding that Fannie Greyhair “participated at least
twice in the Livestock Reduction Program . . . and her flock
and herd were significantly reduced or eliminated by the end
of 1974”). And in rejecting Johnnie’s residency claim based
on a “traditional use area” theory, the IHO made additional
findings about the livestock reduction program and the
    FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION    23


timing of the family’s move to the NPL homesite. Id. at 20
(“If there had been a traditional use area that encompassed
both sides of the partition line, that traditional use area was
abandoned by Fannie Greyhair when her livestock was sold
and it did not exist as of the date of passage of the
[Settlement] Act.”). As detailed in the next sections, the
IHO’s findings about the family’s livestock reduction and
move to NPL are supported by Johnnie’s, Benny’s, and
Margery’s testimony. See Appellant’s Excerpts of R., Vol.
3, Dkt. 11-4, at 380–446 (Aug. 21, 2015, Appeal Hr’g Tr.).
                              1.
    As discussed in Section I.A, Johnnie’s hearing testimony
about where he lived was inconsistent and confusing. Even
though the enumeration roster listed him as residing on the
NPL and listed his grandmother as residing on both the HPL
and the NPL, he testified that he grew up at his
grandmother’s HPL homesite, that his grandmother did not
live at any other “locations,” id. at 384–85, and that he lived
nowhere other than the HPL homesite, id. at 386–87. He
was shown a map of the area but again denied that his family
had any homesites other than the homesite on the HPL. Id.
at 388. After he was shown the enumeration roster, which
showed that he was listed as residing on the NPL, he stated
that his family had a “summer camp” on the NPL. Id. When
asked again if his family had two homesites, one on the HPL
and one on the NPL, he said “[n]o” and stated that there was
no house or sweathouse at the NPL summer camp, “just a
shed.” Id. at 407. When asked again, he denied that his
grandmother had a residence or a “place to live” on the NPL.
Id. at 408. Making matters even more confusing, he later
testified that the “summer camp” was on the JUA, not the
NPL. Id. at 411. When asked if he still lived at the HPL
homesite in 1975, Johnnie responded, “We sold some of the
24   FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION


livestock in ’74, that’s when the livestock reduction.” Id. at
390. He later twice testified that the livestock reduction
started in 1974. Id. at 408, 411. But Johnnie also testified
that he got a job in Winslow in 1975, id. at 390, 408–09, and
he would return to his grandmother’s home on the weekends
to take care of livestock, id. at 391. He testified that he has
been living on the NPL since “they told us to move out,
during the livestock reduction.” Id. at 408. But he denied
moving from the HPL in 1974. Id. And when asked again
whether he remembered the year that his family moved from
the HPL, he said, “No, can’t answer.” Id. at 411.
                              2.
     Johnnie’s brother, Benny, testified that their
grandmother had two camps, one at Lukai Springs on the
HPL, and one on the “Navajo side,” which they used to graze
their livestock. Id. at 419–20. There was a hogan, corral,
and shed at the NPL camp. Id. at 424–25, 430. He testified
that they stopped using the camp “on the Hopi side” after the
livestock reduction. Id. at 421 (stating that they stopped
using the HPL camp because they “had nothing, all the
sheep, all the livestock were gone”); id. (stating that “[t]he
Hopi’s [sic] took them, or BIA, whatever”); id. (when asked
if his family was forced to reduce their livestock, stating that
“[i]t wasn’t reducing, they just keep it all,” “[w]e had
nothing”). He testified that this livestock reduction occurred
in 1974 or 1975. Id. He also said that he moved from the
HPL in May 1975, after the livestock reduction. Id. at 432.
He agreed that, after the livestock reduction, his family
stopped using the HPL camp and started using the NPL camp
more. Id. at 421.
     FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION          25


                                 3.
     Johnnie’s cousin, Margery, also testified that the family
had two camps, one on the HPL and one on the NPL, and
that there were “dwellings” at both camps. Id. at 435. She
explained that the family would frequently move “back and
forth between the two” camps depending on grazing
conditions. Id. at 435, 443. She also testified that Johnnie
was at these homesites in April 1974 when Margery’s
mother died in an accident, and that he made a living doing
arts and crafts and silver work with Margery’s mother. 5 Id.
at 436–37. Margery testified that her family spent most of
their time at the HPL camp until “the livestock reduction was
forced on the people.” Id. at 439–40. She initially stated
that she did not remember the year of the livestock reduction
program but then stated that there were two reductions; the
first occurred before her mother’s death in April 1974, “so it
was before 1974, or ’73,” and the second was after her
mother’s death. Id. at 440. She testified that the family
regularly used the HPL camp until the livestock reduction,
and then “[i]t was a gradual move out to the NPL side.” Id.
                     *       *        *        *
    In sum, Johnnie, Benny, and Margery testified that their
family moved from their HPL homesite “during” or “after”
they were forced to sell their livestock through the livestock
reduction program. Id. at 390, 408, 411, 421, 439–40.
Although they all testified that the livestock reduction
program either started or occurred in 1974, they all also
expressed some uncertainty about the specific dates of the


5
 Margery testified that her mother was killed on April 5, 1974, when a
generator exploded in the family hogan on the HPL homesite. Appeal
Hr’g Tr., at 437, 441–42, 444–45.
26   FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION


program and the family’s move from HPL. Id. at 390, 408,
411, 421, 440. Johnnie repeatedly testified that the livestock
reduction program began in 1974. Id. at 390, 408, 411.
Benny said the livestock reduction program was in 1974 or
1975. Id. at 421. And Margery said there were two livestock
reductions, one before her mother’s death on April 5, 1974,
“so . . . before 1974 or ’73,” and one at an unspecified date
after her mother’s death. Id. at 440. Johnnie denied that he
moved from the HPL homesite in 1974, id. at 408, but then
when asked if he remembered what year he moved, he said
“[n]o, can’t answer,” id. at 411. Benny said that he moved
in May 1975, “[a]fter” the livestock reduction program. Id.
at 432. Margery said that the family made a “gradual move
out to the NPL side” after the livestock reduction, but she
did not specify a date. Id. at 440.
    From this testimony, the IHO could reasonably conclude
that Johnnie moved from the HPL homesite before
December 22, 1974, and so substantial evidence supports the
IHO’s findings that “by the time of the passage of the
[Settlement] Act, the Lukai Spring home [HPL homesite]
was vacated as Fannie Greyhair’s livestock had been sold
through the Livestock Reduction Program.” Hr’g Officer’s
Decision, at 20; see Info. Providers’ Coal., 928 F.2d at 870
(explaining that substantial evidence is “such relevant
evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to
support a conclusion” (quoting Pierce, 487 U.S. at 564–65)).
And although there are conflicts in the testimony,
“‘questions of credibility and resolution of conflicts in the
testimony are functions’ solely for the agency.” Parra, 481
F.3d at 750 (quoting Sample, 694 F.2d at 642). Thus, under
the “extremely lenient [substantial evidence] standard that
asks courts to consider only whether the administrative
record contains sufficient evidence to support the agency’s
    FUSON V. OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION   27


factual determinations,” Zerezghi, 955 F.3d at 814 (internal
quotation marks, alterations, and citation omitted), the
agency’s residency determination should be affirmed.
    Because this testimony about the livestock reduction
program is conflicting and ambiguous as to the specific dates
the family sold all their livestock, the majority argues that
the IHO’s findings that the livestock reduction program and
the family’s move from the HPL homesite were completed
before December 22, 1974 are not supported by substantial
evidence. But when the evidence presents “the possibility of
drawing two inconsistent conclusions,” Consolo, 383 U.S. at
620, or “is susceptible of more than one rational
interpretation,” Gallant, 753 F.2d at 1453, “it is the
[agency’s] conclusion which must be upheld” because “in
reaching [its] findings, the [agency] is entitled to draw
inferences logically flowing from the evidence,” id.
Therefore, the IHO’s findings that Johnnie and his family
sold their livestock and moved from the HPL homesite
before December 22, 1974 are supported by substantial
evidence, and the agency’s residency determination should
be affirmed.
                             II.
    Because the evidence relevant to Johnnie’s eligibility for
relocation benefits is, at best, ambiguous and inconclusive,
and thus we must defer to the agency’s findings and
conclusions, I respectfully dissent.
