        United States Court of Appeals
             for the Fifth Circuit
                                                                         United States Court of Appeals
                                                                                  Fifth Circuit


                             ____________                                       FILED
                                                                            July 23, 2025
                              No. 24-60060                                 Lyle W. Cayce
                             ____________                                       Clerk

Shenzhen Youme Information Technology Company,
Limited; Frendz Trading, Incorporated, doing business as
Vape-E-Way,

                                                                  Petitioners,

                                    versus

Food & Drug Administration,

                                                                  Respondent.
               ______________________________

               Appeal from the Food & Drug Administration
                     Agency Nos. PM0000881.PD1,
                            PM0000885.PD1
               ______________________________

Before Wiener, Stewart, and Southwick, Circuit Judges.
Leslie H. Southwick, Circuit Judge:
       Shenzhen Youme petitions for review of the Food and Drug
Administration’s denial of its application for approval of its electronic
nicotine delivery system. It contends the denial was arbitrary and capricious.
We DENY the petition for review.
     FACTUAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE BACKGROUND
       The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act of 2009
(“TCA”) gives the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) regulatory
                                     No. 24-60060


authority over “cigarettes, cigarette tobacco, roll-your-own tobacco, and
smokeless tobacco and to any other tobacco products that the Secretary by
regulation deems to be subject to this subchapter.” 21 U.S.C. § 387a(b). In
2016, FDA issued a rule that “deem[ed] all other products meeting the
definition of ‘tobacco product’ under [21 U.S.C. §321 (rr)]” to be subject to
FDA’s authority. Deeming Tobacco Products to Be Subject to the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (“The Deeming Rule”), 81 Fed. Reg. 28974,
29056 (May 10, 2016) (codified at 21 C.F.R. pts. 1100, 1140, 1143); 21 C.F.R.
§ 1100.1. “Tobacco product” includes “any product made or derived from
tobacco that is intended for human consumption, including any component,
part, or accessory of a tobacco product.” 21 U.S.C. § 321(rr)(1) (2021).1
Electronic nicotine delivery systems (“ENDS”), like the products that are
the subject of this petition, are included in that definition since they are
intended for use with nicotine.
        Under the TCA, “new tobacco product[s],” or products not
“marketed in the United States as of February 15, 2007,” must obtain
marketing authorization from FDA through one of three options: (1) a
premarket tobacco product application (“PMTA”); (2) the substantial
equivalence pathway; or (3) a substantial equivalence exemption report. 21
U.S.C. § 387j(a)(1)(A), (a)(2)(A)–(B), (a)(2)–(3); § 387e(j)(3)(A). Only the
PMTA pathway is relevant here.
        The PMTA pathway requires the applicant to show that the
marketing of its tobacco product is “appropriate for the protection of the
public health.” § 387j(c)(2)(A). Whether a product is appropriate for the
protection of the public health is “determined with respect to the risks and
        _____________________
        1
          Congress later expanded the definition of “tobacco product” to include not only
products containing nicotine derived from the tobacco plant, but also products “containing
nicotine from any source.” 21 U.S.C. § 321(rr)(1).




                                            2
                                    No. 24-60060


benefits to the population as a whole, including users and nonusers of the
tobacco product.” § 387j(c)(4). This determination considers both “(A) the
increased or decreased likelihood that existing users of tobacco products will
stop using such products; and (B) the increased or decreased likelihood that
those who do not use tobacco products will start using such products.”
§ 387j(c)(4)(A)–(B).
       ENDS products, as new tobacco products, may obtain marketing
authorization through this PMTA pathway.                 FDA finalized guidance
documents on PMTAs for ENDS products in June 2019. U.S. Food &
Drug Admin., Premarket Tobacco Product Applications
for Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems (Revised):
Guidance for Industry (“PMTA Guidance”) (Mar. 2023).2 The
“guidance is intended to assist persons submitting premarket tobacco
product applications for [ENDS products].” Id. at 1. The Guidance does
“not establish legally enforceable responsibilities” but serves to explain “the
Agency’s current thinking on a topic and should be viewed only as
recommendations.” Id. at 2. FDA bases its decisions not on the Guidance,
but “on the obligations that arise from the [Food, Drug, and Cosmetic] Act
and its implementing regulations.” Id. at 1.
       Once FDA deemed ENDS products subject to the TCA,
manufacturers of such products were required to obtain FDA authorization
before marketing its products. Prohibition Juice Co. v. FDA, 45 F.4th 8, 13–
14 (D.C. Cir. 2022). Products already on the market without marketing
approval were “deemed to be adulterated,” making their continued sale
illegal. 21 U.S.C. § 387b(6)(A). As a matter of enforcement discretion,

       _____________________
       2
         https://tinyurl.com/48783rtz. The link is to an updated March 2023 version of
the Guidance. Revisions since 2019 did not change the text relevant to the issues here.




                                          3
                                  No. 24-60060


however, FDA announced it would not immediately enforce the statutory
requirement for authorization of products already on the market. The
Deeming Rule, 81 Fed. Reg. at 28,977–78. FDA initially announced a two-
to-three-year period of enforcement discretion for products already on the
market while manufacturers prepared, and FDA reviewed, marketing
applications. Id. at 28,978. In 2017, FDA extended that period until August
2022 for deemed ENDS products on the market as of August 2016. U.S.
Food & Drug Admin., Extension of Certain Tobacco
Product Compliance Deadlines Related to the Final
Deeming Rule: Guidance for Industry (Revised), 3 (2017). In
2019, however, a United States district court in Maryland vacated the
guidance extending the submission deadline and ordered FDA to accelerate
the PMTA submission deadline. American Acad. of Pediatrics v. FDA, 399
F. Supp. 3d 479, 487 (D. Md. 2019). The court permitted products with
timely-filed PMTAs to remain on the market without enforcement action
for a period of up to one year after the PMTA submission deadline. Id. The
court directed FDA to require applications for PMTAs by September 9,
2020.
        Petitioner Shenzhen Youme Information Technology Co., Ltd.
(“Youme”) is a Chinese manufacturer of ENDS products. ENDS use
electricity supplied by a battery to a metallic heating element, or coil, to heat
a solution containing nicotine, flavorings, and other ingredients (“e-liquid”)
into an aerosol that the user inhales. No ENDS products were commercially
marketed in the United States as of February 15, 2007, so Youme must
submit PMTAs to obtain marketing authorization from FDA for its ENDS
products. In 2016, Youme launched its Suorin brand of ENDS products in
the United States, including the open-system Suorin Air device that is the
subject of this petition. The Suorin Air device is a refillable e-cigarette sold
without any e-liquid.       Instead, consumers purchase bottled e-liquid




                                       4
                                 No. 24-60060


separately and use it to fill the open-system device. These bottled e-liquids
are available in a variety of nicotine strengths, ranging from zero nicotine to
concentrations of up to 50 mg/mL (i.e., five percent).
       In August 2020, Youme submitted bundled PMTAs for its open-
system Suorin Air device and the compatible empty replacement cartridge.
Youme asserted its applications contained “robust studies and information”
and that “[t]he information presented . . . shows a very detailed and well
supported case for the population as a whole, and with respect to the risks
and benefits of both users and nonusers, showing that e-cigarettes are”
appropriate for the protection of the public health.
       In July 2022, FDA completed its preliminary assessment of Youme’s
application materials, citing numerous deficiencies. In March 2023, FDA
issued a deficiency letter to Youme that described deficiencies about which
FDA sought additional information. FDA asked Youme to submit all
responsive information by June 8, 2023, and stated it did not “intend to issue
additional [d]eficiency letters” or “intend to provide an extension of time for
response to deficiency letters.” In May 2023, Youme requested an extension
to submit additional responsive information that could not be adequately
prepared within the 90-day response period. In early June 2023, while the
extension request was still pending, Youme sent timely responses to some,
but not all, of the deficiencies identified in FDA’s deficiency letter.
       In November 2023, FDA denied Youme’s extension request because
it did “not demonstrate that the extension of time is reasonable as the types
of information needed to support the applications have been previously
known and may have been provided with the PMTAs or as an amendment
prior to the start of scientific review.” FDA also stated it had “initiated
scientific review based on content received by the date listed in [Youme’s]
Deficiency Letter.”




                                       5
                                  No. 24-60060


       In January 2024, FDA issued a denial order and its Technical Project
Lead (“TPL”) memorandum. The memorandum summarized FDA’s
findings, concluding that Youme did not demonstrate its products would be
appropriate for the protection of the public health. FDA concluded that
“the significant gaps in applicant data do not allow FDA to evaluate the risk-
benefit profile of the new products” and “there remains a reasonable
possibility that the risks of the new products outweigh its limited benefits to
public health.”
       Youme petitioned this court for review.
                             JURISDICTION
       Under the TCA, “any person adversely affected” by a regulation or
a marketing denial “may file a petition for judicial review of such regulation
or denial with the United States Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia or for the circuit in which such person resides or has their principal
place of business.” 21 U.S.C. § 387l(a)(1). FDA contends that because
Youme is a Chinese corporation with no connection to this circuit, it was
required to file its petition in the D.C. Circuit. We have previously held that
venue in this circuit is proper if one of the petitioners has its principal place
of business in this circuit. R.J. Reynolds Vapor Co. v. FDA, 65 F.4th 182, 188
(5th Cir. 2023), aff’d, 145 S. Ct. 1984 (2025). The Supreme Court recently
affirmed that decision, holding that retailers who sell the product subject to
a marketing denial are “adversely affected.” FDA v. R.J. Reynolds Vapor
Co., 145 S. Ct. 1984, 1993 (2025).
       Here, Petitioner Vape-E-Way has its principal place of business in
Houston, Texas. Vape-E-Way has, and continues to, carry the products for
which the marketing approval was sought and is adversely affected by the
denial. Venue is proper in this circuit.




                                       6
                                 No. 24-60060


                               DISCUSSION
       Youme contends FDA acted arbitrarily and capriciously by failing to
weigh the public health risks and benefits of Youme’s products and by
limiting applicants to a single deficiency letter. We address each argument
in that order, first explaining the relevant standards.
       The Administrative Procedure Act directs courts to “hold unlawful
and set aside agency action” that is “arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of
discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law.” 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A).
The agency must have “acted within a zone of reasonableness” meaning it
“reasonably considered the relevant issues and reasonably explained the
decision.” FCC v. Prometheus Radio Project, 592 U.S. 414, 423 (2021). Our
scope of “review ‘is narrow,’ and [we] must exercise appropriate deference
to agency decisionmaking and not substitute [our] own judgment for that of
the agency.” FDA v. Wages & White Lion Invs., L.L.C., 145 S. Ct. 898, 917
(2025) (quoting Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Ass’n. of U.S., Inc. v. State Farm Mut.
Auto. Ins. Co., 463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983)). We set aside agency action “that fails
to account for ‘relevant factors’ or evinces ‘a clear error of judgment.’”
BNSF Ry. Co. v. Fed. R.R. Admin., 62 F.4th 905, 910 (5th Cir. 2023) (quoting
University of Tex. M.D. Anderson Cancer Ctr. v. U.S. Dep’t of Health & Hum.
Servs., 985 F.3d 472, 475 (5th Cir. 2021)). The “agency’s action must be
upheld, if at all, on the basis articulated by the agency itself, not reasons
developed post hoc.” Id. at 910–11 (quotation marks omitted) (quoting Texas
v. United States, 40 F.4th 205, 226 (5th Cir.2022)).
       The TCA requires FDA to deny a marketing application if the
application and evidence do not affirmatively demonstrate that marketing the
product would be appropriate for the protection of the public health. 21
U.S.C. § 387j(c)(2)(A). FDA makes this determination “with respect to the
risks and benefits to the population as a whole, including users and nonusers




                                       7
                                     No. 24-60060


of the tobacco product,” considering both “the increased or decreased
likelihood that existing users of tobacco products will stop using such
products[,] and the increased or decreased likelihood that those who do not
use tobacco products will start using such products.” § 387j(c)(4)(A)–(B).
The burden is on the applicant to make the appropriate showing by including
all relevant information necessary to make that determination in its initial
application. § 387j(b)(1)(A)–(G). Based on the application, FDA makes a
“single predictive judgment whether a given tobacco product, on balance,
will benefit the public as a whole.” Fontem US, LLC v. FDA, 82 F.4th 1207,
1215 (D.C. Cir. 2023). When the application lacks evidence to support a
showing that its product “will benefit the public as a whole,” the application
must be denied. Id.; § 387j(c)(2)(A).
I.      FDA’s Failure to Weigh
        Youme contends that FDA failed to weigh the overall risks and
benefits of its product, rendering its denial arbitrary and capricious. In
particular, Youme asserts that FDA did not consider Youme’s “extensive
evidence of the potential public health benefits of its products.” Instead,
FDA found gaps in data caused by the imposition of new evidentiary
requirements “after the fact” and then refused to allow Youme to satisfy
those requirements.3 They contend that, like in Fontem, FDA in this case
failed to consider the evidence of potential benefits of the devices. See
Fontem, 82 F.4th 1207. We examine that authority.
        Fontem submitted applications for both flavored and unflavored
products. Id. at 1211. The court approved the denial of the marketing
        _____________________
        3
          Youme also contends that data submitted two weeks after the submission deadline
satisfied the alleged new requirement, but that FDA acted arbitrarily and capriciously by
refusing to weigh those benefits. We view this to be an argument that FDA’s deadline is
arbitrary and capricious, so we address this argument in Section II of the opinion.




                                           8
                                 No. 24-60060


application for the flavored products, finding FDA engaged in the proper
weighing of benefits and risks by “focus[ing] on the question central to the
public health inquiry — whether Fontem had shown the ‘increased or
decreased likelihood that existing users of tobacco products will stop using
such products’ outweighs the ‘increased or decreased likelihood that those
who do not use tobacco products will start using such products.’” Id. at 1217
(quoting § 387j(c)(4)(A)–(B)).
       As to the petitioner’s unflavored products, the court found that none
of the deficiencies supported “FDA’s finding that Fontem’s unflavored
products were not appropriate for the protection of public health.” Id. at
1219. The court reasoned that “nowhere in the denial order did the FDA
address potential benefits of Fontem’s products” or “consider the possibility
that existing users of combustible tobacco products such as cigarettes would
reap health benefits by transitioning to Fontem’s vaping products.” Id. The
court therefore found that FDA “failed to analyze the tradeoffs necessary to
make a public health finding” and failed to “explain how the specific
deficiencies relate to its overall conclusion that Fontem failed to demonstrate
its unflavored products were appropriate for the protection of public health.”
Id. at 1217. “Instead, [FDA] identified highly granular deficiencies” such as
“names, accreditation, and specifications of certain laboratories used by
Fontem,” “but failed to evaluate the potential effects of such deficiencies on
the public health.” Id. at 1220, 1222. FDA also failed to explain why the
deficiencies “were so serious as to justify a finding that Fontem had not
shown its products would be appropriate for the protection of the public
health.” Id. at 1220–21.
       Relying on Fontem, Youme argues that it presented extensive evidence
of the potential public health benefits, but FDA did not “give any indication
that it attempted to properly weigh the applications’ substantial evidence of
public health benefits against the potential risks of Youme’s products.”



                                      9
                                No. 24-60060


       In this record, though, there is evidence that FDA expressly
considered the potential benefits. A few examples: “ENDS carry the
potential to positively impact population health when used as an alternative
to combusted tobacco,” “abuse liability of the new products is lower than
that of a [combustible cigarette] when used with [certain nicotine
concentrations],” and “[s]hould adults who currently use [combustible
cigarettes] switch exclusively to use of the new products, they are likely to
maintain similar or slightly lower nicotine dependence levels.”
       FDA evaluated that evidence, found it insufficient, and explained
how the specific deficiencies related to its overall conclusion that Youme
failed to show its products were appropriate for the protection of the public
health. It explained that high nicotine content e-liquids are prevalent on the
market and Youme failed to provide sufficient data to evaluate the risks
associated with use of the new products with those high concentration
liquids. FDA explained that abuse liability “indicates the degree to which
users of the new products are likely to use and develop an addiction to the
product and face the health risks posed by long term product use.” FDA
also explained that “high abuse liability may increase the likelihood that
tobacco users and nonusers, including youth, who try the new product for the
first time will continue using it.” FDA asserts that Youme’s evidence of
potential public-health benefits depends on existing smokers transitioning
away from combustible cigarettes. FDA found “only a moderate chance that
some current [combustible-cigarette] users would switch completely to the
new products.”
       Here, unlike in Fontem, FDA provided meaningful explanations of the
importance of determining a product’s abuse liability and the relevance of
that information to the statutory public-health inquiry. FDA weighed the
abuse-liability risk with the “evidence that Youme’s products would help
existing tobacco users quit or substantially reduce their use of combustible



                                     10
                                No. 24-60060


cigarettes.”   FDA determined that “additional information on abuse
liability, or on the likelihood that consumers would follow” product
recommendations was necessary to prove the products were appropriate for
the protection of the public health. The decision was reasonable and
reasonably explained.
       The same is true for Youme’s argument that FDA changed its
position, or imposed a new evidentiary requirement, when it stated that
Youme’s “own key study . . . appears to show that subjective effects
experienced from use of the new products may reinforce adults who smoke”
with “only a moderate chance that some current [combustible-cigarette]
users would switch completely to the new product.” This is not a new
requirement. The TCA requires FDA to consider “the increased or
decreased likelihood that existing users of tobacco products will stop using
such products.”    21 U.S.C. § 387j(c)(4)(A).      A product’s potential to
reinforce nicotine addiction in those who currently use combustible
cigarettes is precisely the inquiry FDA is to make to determine whether a
product is appropriate for the protection of the public health. FDA used
slightly different language but the “distinction amounts to splitting hairs.”
See Fontem, 82 F.4th at 1216. The denial was reasonable and reasonably
explained.
       Youme also asserts that the gaps in information resulted from new
evidentiary requirements FDA imposed “after the fact,” with Youme
having no opportunity to satisfy those requirements. Specifically, Youme
contends FDA shifted its requirements from “testing of the device with a
‘reasonable range of available e-liquids’ to e-liquids that represent ‘the
highest and lowest nicotine concentrations’ available on the market,”
thereby moving the regulatory goalposts. Youme contends this change is
“exactly the sort of moving of the regulatory goalposts” found to be arbitrary




                                      11
                                   No. 24-60060


and capricious in Wages & White Lion Invs., L.L.C. v. FDA, 90 F.4th 357 (5th
Cir. 2024) (en banc) vacated, 145 S. Ct. 898 (2025).
       The Supreme Court has since vacated our holding in Wages & White
Lion. See Wages & White Lion, 145 S. Ct. 898. The Court left open whether
arguments relying on an agency’s change in position applied to nonbinding
agency guidance.4 We assume, without deciding, they do. “Agencies are
free to change their existing policies as long as they provide a reasoned
explanation for the change.” Encino Motorcars, LLC v. Navarro, 579 U.S.
211, 221 (2016). The first question is whether the “agency changed existing
policy,” i.e., effected “a reversal of [its] former views as to the proper
course” or “‘disavow[ed] prior ‘inconsistent’ agency action as ‘no longer
good law.’” Wages & White Lion, 145 S. Ct. at 918 (first alteration in original)
(first quoting State Farm, 463 U.S. at 41; and then quoting FCC v. Fox
Television Stations, Inc., 556 U.S. 502, 517 (2009)). The second question is
“[d]id the agency ‘display awareness that it is changing position’ and offer
‘good reasons for the new policy.’” Id. (quoting Fox Television Stations, 556
U.S. at 515).
       Youme argues that its testing of e-liquids “seemed to satisfy FDA’s
recommendation in its PMTA Guidance” that they test with a “reasonable
range of available e-liquids.” FDA concluded the “‘test data lack[ed]
sufficient information to demonstrate potential nicotine exposure to users’
because ‘FDA requires data from e-liquids with the highest and lowest
nicotine concentrations, both with the highest VG concentration.’”



       _____________________
       4
         The Supreme Court “assume[d], without deciding, that the change-in-position
doctrine applies to an agency’s divergence from a position articulated in nonbinding
guidance documents.” Wages & White Lion, 145 S. Ct. at 918 n.5.




                                        12
                                 No. 24-60060


          The PMTA Guidance recommended that “testing reflect the range
of operating conditions . . . and use patterns . . . within which consumers are
likely to use your product, and the types of products that consumers are likely
to use in conjunction with your products.” PMTA Guidance at 30.
Youme failed to test its products with such e-liquids. FDA did not change
its policy but explained how Youme failed to follow the Guidance to test a
“reasonable range” of e-liquids based on its particular product and how it is
commonly used according to its own studies. FDA in essence found the
range used was unreasonable. FDA’s actions are consistent with its “case-
by-case” approach and Section 387j(c)(3)’s instruction that the FDA
include “a statement informing the applicant of the measures required to
remove such application from deniable form.” “FDA’s denial order[] w[as]
sufficiently consistent with its predecisional guidance and thus did not run
afoul of the change-in-position doctrine.” See Wages & White Lion, 145 S. Ct.
at 919.
II.       Deficiency Letter
          Youme asserts that FDA’s “one and done” approach to issuing
deficiency letters was arbitrary and capricious because FDA (1) failed to give
Youme an opportunity to address a newly raised issue, (2) continued the
single-deficiency policy after the court-imposed deadline, (3) failed to
consider post-deadline submissions, and (4) failed to treat like cases alike.
          First, Youme argues FDA changed its policy to a single deficiency
letter “so that the agency could make as many final determinations as
possible by what it understood to be a court-directed deadline in September
2021.” Youme argues that by the time FDA considered its response to the
issues raised in the deficiency letter, FDA’s stated rationale for limiting
applicants to only a single deficiency letter no longer applied. FDA counters
that nothing in the TCA requires FDA to issue any deficiency letters before




                                      13
                                  No. 24-60060


denying an application and instead Section 387j(c)(2)’s instruction that
FDA “shall deny” an application that fails to demonstrate the product is
appropriate for the protection of the public health.
         Although the TCA does not require multiple deficiency letters,
Youme argues FDA’s prior practice of issuing multiple rounds of deficiency
letters could be sufficient to create justifiable reliance on FDA’s past
practice of its iterative review process. “Agencies are free to change their
existing policies as long as they provide a reasoned explanation for the
change.” Encino Motorcars, 579 U.S. at 221. The agency must, at a minimum,
“‘display awareness that it is changing position’ and ‘show that there are
good reasons for the new policy.’” Id. (quoting Fox Television Stations, 556
U.S. at 515). An agency “cannot ‘surprise’ a party by penalizing it for ‘good-
faith reliance’ on the agency’s prior positions.” R.J. Reynolds Vapor Co., 65
F.4th at 189 (quoting Christopher v. SmithKline Beecham Corp., 567 U.S. 142,
156–57 (2012)). Continued reliance on longstanding and well-established
practices are justifiable until the agency first publishes notice of its intent to
change its policy. See Calumet Shreveport Refin., L.L.C. v. EPA, 86 F.4th
1121, 1135 (5th Cir. 2023), vacated on other grounds, 145 S. Ct. 1735 (2025). A
legitimate reliance interest is a high bar, “requiring, for example, ‘decades of
industry reliance on [an agency’s] prior policy.’” Wages & White Lion, 145
S. Ct. at 927 (alteration in original) (quoting Encino Motorcars, 579 U.S. at
222).
         FDA received applications to market nearly 27 million deemed
products, with more than 6.5 million before September 2020. Combatting the
Youth Vaping Epidemic by Enhancing Enforcement Against Illegal E-Cigarettes:
Hearing before the S. Comm. on the Judiciary, 118th Cong. 5 (2024) (statement
of      Brian   A.    King,    Director,     Ctr.    for    Tobacco       Prods.)
https://perma.cc/6LXP-3F2Y.         In June 2021, FDA announced that it
intended to issue only one deficiency letter and base its decision on the



                                       14
                                 No. 24-60060


applicant’s response to that letter. U.S. Food and Drug Admin.,
Deemed Product Review: A Conversation with the
Center for Tobacco Products Office of Science 24 (June 11,
2021), https://perma.cc/6PD3-FLXG. FDA explained its reason for the
change in the review process: to more efficiently process the “very large
number” of applications received around September 2020. Id. FDA
“streamlined the process for all review programs and . . . generally limited
the application review to one deficiency letter.” Id.
       FDA displayed an awareness that it was changing its process and
provided reasons for the change. “An agency’s control over its timetables is
entitled to considerable deference.” Calumet Shreveport, 86 F.4th at 1142.
As for Youme’s reliance interest, the change to the review and deficiency
letter process occurred in June 2021.       Although Youme submitted its
application ten months prior, the notice of the change occurred nearly two
years before FDA issued its single deficiency letter to Youme. Further,
Section 387j requires that an applicant submit a complete application. 21
U.S.C. § 387j(b)(1). Youme has not explained how it would have submitted
its application differently if it had known of the deficiency-process change at
the time. Youme’s reliance on FDA’s prior iterative review process is not
justifiable because Youme had an obligation to submit a completed
application and had significant notice it would be issued only a single
deficiency letter.
       Youme also contends that FDA’s sole deficiency was based on the
lack of a labeling comprehension and human factors study whereby study
participants are evaluated on their ability to understand and comply with the
warning that the Suorin Air device is recommended for use with e-liquid
concentrations up to a certain percent. They assert this deficiency was raised
for the first time in the denial order, denying Youme the opportunity to
address it. FDA counters that it cited the same abuse-liability concern



                                      15
                                 No. 24-60060


originally identified in the deficiency letter, but also explained in greater
detail why Youme’s response to the deficiency letter was inadequate to
address the concern.
       As mentioned already, FDA’s deficiency letter cited concerns with
the abuse liability of Youme’s products when used with certain e-liquids.
Youme responded to that deficiency by suggesting it would add instructions
recommending use of the device only with e-liquids below the concerning
concentrations. FDA’s denial letter informed Youme that its response to
the deficiency letter was inadequate to address the abuse-liability concern, in
part because Youme failed to show that consumers would comprehend and
comply with the new recommendation. This is not a new deficiency. The
Technical Project Lead memorandum explained that the deficiency “relates
to the abuse liability of the new products and the consumer comprehension
of the new instructions the applicant added in response to” a deficiency
noted in the deficiency letter. FDA then explained that Youme failed to test
its product with e-liquids containing higher nicotine concentrations, and it
was that failure to test that related directly to abuse-liability concerns. FDA
explained further that “[i]f the applicant intends to demonstrate that
consumers understand the risks associated with the use of nicotine
concentrations greater than [a certain amount] and will not use such e-liquids
with the new products, then data on consumer comprehension and the
likelihood of compliance with the new instructions is needed to evaluate
whether consumers will understand the appropriate e-liquid to use in the new
products.”
       This is not a new deficiency, but an explanation of how Youme failed
to address the abuse-liability concerns. Further, the PMTA Guidance
recommends applicants “include studies demonstrating that users and
nonusers understand the product’s labeling and instruction for use, and use




                                      16
                                No. 24-60060


the product according to its labeled instructions,” so Youme was on notice
these studies could be required. PMTA Guidance at 43.
       Youme also contends FDA failed to “treat like cases alike” by
refusing to weigh evidence in Youme’s post-deadline submission. “It is a
bedrock principle of administrative law that an agency must ‘treat like cases
alike.’” Univ. of Tex. M.D. Anderson, 985 F.3d at 479 (quoting 32 Charles
Alan Wright & Charles H. Koch, Federal Practice and
Procedure § 8248, at 431 (2006)). “This principle is an outgrowth of the
old adage . . . that ‘an agency changing its course must supply a reasoned
analysis.’” Id. (quoting State Farm, 463 U.S. at 57).
       Youme does not proffer any “like cases” for us to consider. Youme
instead argues that “by FDA’s own admission in an internal memorandum
created after Youme submitted its response to the deficiency letter, the
agency has periodically considered and weighed evidence from such late
amendments,” so FDA’s failure to review its post-deadline submission
shows that it did not treat like cases alike. To support the assertion, Youme
quotes one part of a sentence that states “there have been instances since
August 2020 where [the Center for Tobacco Products’ Office of Science] has
reviewed late amendments.” The complete sentence, however, provides
that “[a]lthough there have been instances since August 2020 where [the
Center for Tobacco Products’ Office of Science] has reviewed late
amendments, [it] aims to improve consistency and predictability in the
PMTA program.”
       FDA’s internal memorandum mentions it will consider “all solicited
and unsolicited amendments received prior to the start of substantive
scientific review,” but that “amendments received after this time will not be
considered” absent two exceptions.        The two exceptions are “safety
information or real-world safety data” and “amendments received for




                                     17
                                No. 24-60060


applications that were likely to receive a marketing granted order prior to
receipt of the amendment.” FDA explained that it intended to review late
amendments of this kind “to ensure products made available to the public
are appropriate for the protection of the public health.” Youme does not
contend it satisfies either exception. FDA’s refusal to weigh Youme’s post-
deadline submission was not arbitrary and capricious.
       Finally, Youme cites cases involving an iterative review process, but
those cases precede FDA’s policy change.             Further, the examples
Petitioners cite in which FDA issued multiple deficiency letters are not
similarly situated, as one product is a smokeless tobacco product and the
other was through the substantial-equivalence pathway, not the PMTA
pathway that Youme’s product must satisfy. Youme discusses an ENDS
product in its reply brief, but the argument is forfeited because Youme did
not present it in its opening brief. United States v. Fernandez, 48 F.4th 405,
412 (5th Cir. 2022).
       The denial of the application was reasonable and reasonably
explained. The petition for review is DENIED.




                                      18
