            United States Court of Appeals
                       For the First Circuit


No. 07-2418

                     NEW ENGLAND POWER COMPANY,

                             Petitioner,

                                 v.

                FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION,

                             Respondent.




                   TOWN OF NORWOOD, MASSACHUSETTS,

                             Intervenor.



               ON PETITION FOR REVIEW OF ORDERS OF THE

                FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION



                               Before

                       Torruella, Circuit Judge,
                    Cudahy,* Senior Circuit Judge,
                      and Lipez, Circuit Judge.



     Kenneth G. Jaffe, with whom John F. Sherman, III, Ronald E.
Minsk, and Alston & Bird LLP were on brief, for petitioner.
     Samuel Soopper, with whom Cynthia A. Marlette and Robert H.
Solomon were on brief, for respondent.


     *
         Of the Seventh Circuit, sitting by designation.
     Robert A. Jablon, with whom Daniel I. Davidson, Sharon
Coleman, Spiegel & McDiarmid LLP, J. Owen Todd, Juliet A. Davison,
Heidi A. Nadel, and Todd & Weld LLP were on brief, for intervenor.



                          July 16, 2008
              LIPEZ, Circuit Judge.        New England Power Company ("NEP")

seeks review of orders of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

("FERC" or the "Commission").1             In the orders, FERC found the 18

percent per year late payment charge that NEP had applied to the

Town of Norwood's overdue contract termination payments to be

unjust and unreasonable.          FERC ordered that NEP substitute a prime

rate-based interest rate as set forth in 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a (the

"Revised   Interest       Rate").     NEP       does   not    appeal   this   ruling.

Instead, NEP challenges only FERC's determination that the lower

Revised Interest Rate must be applied to bills rendered before June

30,   2006,     arguing    that     the    earlier     application       constitutes

impermissible retroactive rate-making.                  Because FERC failed to

address    NEP's   retroactivity          arguments     and    instead    based   its

decision to apply the Revised Interest Rate to the earlier bills

solely on an erroneous reading of our opinion in Town of Norwood v.

FERC, 476 F.3d 18, 29 (1st Cir.), cert. denied, 128 S. Ct. 432

(2007) ("Norwood IV"), we vacate that portion of the orders and

remand for full consideration by the Commission of the appropriate

effective date for the Revised Interest Rate.




      1
      Two orders fall within the scope of this petition: FERC's
Order on Remand, dated May 17, 2007, and its Remand Rehearing
Order, dated August 30, 2007, in which FERC denied NEP's request
for clarification or rehearing of the May 17th order.

                                          -2-
                                     I.

            The background of this protracted dispute is set forth in

detail in Town of Norwood v. FERC, 202 F.3d 392, 397-98 (1st Cir.),

cert. denied, 531 U.S. 818 (2000) ("Norwood I"), Town of Norwood v.

FERC, 202 F.3d 408, 412-14 (1st Cir.), cert. denied, 531 U.S. 818

(2000) ("Norwood II"), Town of Norwood v. FERC, 217 F.3d 24, 25-27

(1st Cir.), cert. denied, 532 U.S. 993 (2001) ("Norwood III"), and

Norwood IV, 476 F.3d at 20-24.            For our purposes, only a brief

outline is required.

            The case arises from the Town of Norwood's 1998 decision

to terminate its full requirements electric service contract with

NEP prior to its scheduled expiration in 2008 so that Norwood could

change power suppliers.           Pursuant to a FERC-approved tariff,

Norwood was permitted to terminate the contract early upon payment

of   a   contract   termination    charge   (the   "CTC").    The   CTC    was

calculated using a formula that would enable NEP to recover the

revenues that it would have collected if a terminating customer had

continued to pay the tariff rate then in effect through the end of

the contract term.       In a series of lawsuits, Norwood mounted

unsuccessful challenges to the reasonableness of the CTC formula,

as well as the values used in calculating the amount of the CTC

under the formula.

            In Norwood IV, we disposed of the last of Norwood's

substantive    challenges   to     the    CTC   formula,   concluding     that


                                     -3-
Norwood's remaining objections were either without merit or barred

by res judicata.        We then turned to a series of arguments raised by

Norwood regarding late payment charges applicable to the monthly

bills for CTC installments.             NEP had begun sending these bills to

Norwood in May 1998.            In June 1998, it had begun including late

payment charges of 18 percent per year (1.5 percent per month) as

set forth in schedule I, section J of its tariff.2                     We affirmed

FERC's      conclusion    that    the    section   J   rate    was   the   governing

provision for the late payment charge, but concluded that FERC's

June       30,   2006   order    had    not   adequately      addressed    Norwood's

contention that the 18 percent rate constituted an unreasonable

penalty. Norwood had argued that the rate was unreasonable because

it was in excess of NEP's cost of money and was inconsistent with

Connecticut Light & Power Co., 59 F.P.C. 811 (1977), in which FERC

itself had rejected a proposed 18 percent late fee on the ground

that it was "not supported by cost data."              Id. at 821.        We rejected

FERC's decision to distinguish Connecticut Light & Power based


       2
      Norwood did not make any CTC payments until July 22, 2004.
On that date, Norwood paid $20,356,994.35. Following our decision
in Norwood IV, Norwood made an additional lump sum payment of $15,
014,428 in March 2007. In addition, Norwood made the monthly CTC
payments of $599,971 during September through February 2007 and a
single payment of $599,971 in July 2007. When the record closed at
FERC, combined payments totaled $38,371,277. Norwood avers in its
brief that, since that time, it has made additional payments such
that the total of its payments to NEP now equals $54,407,886.22.
Norwood contends that this represents payment in full of the
principal owed, plus interest computed at the 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a
rate with future payments discounted at the current 18 C.F.R. §
35.19a rate.

                                          -4-
solely on Norwood's failure to introduce cost evidence to show that

the provision was not cost related, noting that "NEP[] does not

seriously suggest that 18 percent represents its cost of money."

Norwood IV, 476 F.3d at 28.     Accordingly, we remanded the issue to

the   Commission   with   instructions   to   "squarely   and   adequately

resolve" the issue of the reasonableness of the 18 percent rate.

Id. at 29.

           We then addressed "one other loose end as to interest,"

concerning Norwood's argument that "even if the 18 percent rate is

applicable to CTC late payments, the rate should not be applied to

payments due prior to FERC's order of February 22, 2006, since

before that point the CTC amount had not been determined."3            Id.

We rejected this argument by relying on the language of the tariff

itself, which anticipated that the amount billed may be in dispute

and provided that interest nevertheless would accrue during the

pendency of the dispute:

           [S]ection J makes it quite clear that, when a
           customer disputes an amount billed by a
           carrier, the carrier is entitled to prescribed
           interest that accrues "from . . . the
           rendering of said bill" on "the amount finally
           determined to be due and payable."

Id.   We then concluded our discussion with a paraphrase of the

tariff language: "Norwood has challenged the amount of interest


      3
      The February 22, 2006 order affirmed FERC's prior rulings
rejecting Norwood's challenges to the CTC. Norwood contended that
prior to that date the amount of the CTC payment was in dispute and
so no interest should have accrued.

                                  -5-
prescribed; but whatever the figure FERC finds justified, the

tariff provides that Norwood owes that amount from the time the

bill was rendered."   Id.   In summarizing our holdings at the end of

the opinion, we restated that Norwood was responsible for "interest

payments based on at least the prime rate – the figure Norwood

itself seeks – and remand[ed] only as to whether more was properly

due."   Id.

           On remand, FERC concluded that the 18 percent interest

rate for late payments was unjust and unreasonable and directed NEP

to "file a report with the Commission reflecting the amount of the

CTCs owed, plus the applicable interest rate(s) and interest

amount(s),    calculated    pursuant    to   section   35.19a   of   the

Commission's regulations."     NEP filed a motion for clarification

and an alternative request for rehearing as to the effective date

of the Revised Interest Rate.     NEP argued that the Commission is

generally only empowered, under § 206 of the Federal Power Act, 16

U.S.C. § 824e, to order prospective relief when rates within a

tariff are determined to be unreasonable.       NEP asserted that the

only applicable exception to this rule provides that when an

appellate court has reversed a Commission order upholding an

existing rate, the Commission may make the relief effective as of

the date of the overturned order. See Natural Gas Clearinghouse v.

FERC, 965 F.2d 1066, 1073 (D.C. Cir. 1992) (per curiam) (holding

that FERC may make a new rate effective as of the date of an


                                  -6-
overturned order by applying the "general principle of agency

authority to implement judicial reversals").        Relying on this case

law, NEP contended that the June 30, 2006 order from FERC, which we

partially overturned in Norwood IV, "was the first and only order"

that   addressed    whether   the   section   J   late    payment   fee   was

reasonable. Thus, NEP argued that the Revised Interest Rate should

be effective as of June 30, 2006, with the 18 percent rate

applicable to bills rendered before that date.           NEP contended that

any other outcome would violate the filed rate doctrine and its

corollary, the rule against retroactive ratemaking, see Consol.

Edison Co. v. FERC, 347 F.3d 964, 969 (D.C. Cir. 2003), and would

exceed the scope of FERC's authority.

           FERC denied NEP's motion for clarification and request

for rehearing without addressing any of these arguments regarding

retroactivity.     Instead, FERC concluded that "the Court of Appeals

has already decided the issue of the Revised Interest Rate's

effective date."      In support of this conclusion, the Commission

cited the sentence from Norwood IV in which we concluded that

"whatever the figure FERC finds justified, the tariff provides that

Norwood owes that amount from the time the bill was rendered."            476

F.3d at 29.        FERC interpreted this language as a conclusive

determination by this court that the lower Revised Interest Rate

must be applied to all bills since 1998.




                                    -7-
                                     II.

            On   appeal,   FERC   and   Norwood   defend   the   retroactive

application of the Revised Interest Rate on the theory that its

effective date was governed by the law of the case doctrine, which

"'posits that when a court decides upon a rule of law, that

decision should continue to govern the same issues in subsequent

stages in the same case.'"        NLRB v. Goodless Bros. Elec. Co., 285

F.3d 102, 107 (1st Cir. 2002) (quoting Arizona v. California, 460

U.S. 605, 618 (1983)).       This doctrine means that "[a]n appellate

court's mandate controls all issues that 'were actually considered

and decided by the appellate court, or as were necessarily inferred

from the disposition on appeal.'"          Id. (quoting Cohen v. Brown

Univ., 101 F.3d 155, 188 (1st Cir. 1996)) (internal quotation marks

omitted).    However, "it is equally clear that issues that were not

decided by the appellate court and that are thus outside the scope

of the mandate are not affected by the mandate."           de Jesus-Mangual

v. Rodriguez, 383 F.3d 1, 6 (1st Cir. 2004); see also Biggins v.

Hazen Paper, 111 F.3d 205, 209 (1st Cir. 1997) ("[M]andates require

respect for what the higher court decided, not for what it did not

decide.").

            In Norwood IV, the question of whether it would be within

FERC's power to order a lower prime rate-based interest rate to be

applied to all bills from 1998 forward was not briefed by the

parties nor discussed in the panel opinion.            As the voluminous


                                     -8-
briefs of the parties in this current appeal illustrate, the proper

scope of FERC's authority to retroactively adjust the unreasonable

interest   rate   on   Norwood's   late   payments   requires   a    careful

examination of the statutory language in the Federal Power Act and

the case law interpreting it, as well as careful consideration of

the applicability of that law to the facts in this case.                That

examination was never undertaken by this court in Norwood IV, nor

would we have purported to decide such a complex question in a

single sentence and without the benefit of briefing and argument

from the parties.

           Instead, we decided only the much narrower question that

was properly before us: namely, whether Norwood owed any interest

at all for the period preceding February 2006. That question could

be answered simply by referencing the terms of the tariff itself

and that is what we did.      The sentence cited by FERC as deciding

the effective date of the Revised Interest Rate is merely a

paraphrase of the language of the tariff itself.       Our remand "as to

whether more [than the prime rate] is properly due" returned to

FERC the consideration of what level of interest – somewhere

between the prime rate and the 18 percent rate in the tariff – was

properly due as to each monthly bill rendered by NEP.4              Subsumed

within this consideration was the question of whether the 18



     4
      Our remand also did not require FERC to conclude that the
same amount of interest would apply to each of the monthly bills.

                                    -9-
percent rate was unreasonable – as well as the question of what

FERC could and should do about it if the higher rate was found to

be unreasonable, a question that was never before us in Norwood

IV.5

           Indeed, our remand order did not presume that FERC would

find the section J rate to be unreasonable.      Instead, we left open

the possibility that FERC "could sustain the 18 percent figure

against attack."   Norwood IV, 476 F.3d at 29.    The proper effective

date for the lower interest rate thus was not ripe for our review

at that time and necessarily fell outside of the scope of our

mandate in Norwood IV.6   Therefore, the law of the case doctrine

does not remotely support FERC's decision on the effective date of

the Revised Interest Rate.




       5
      The dissent insists that the language of our remand left no
room for FERC to consider NEP's retroactivity arguments.        We
disagree. Within the consideration of what was "properly due,"
FERC was not only permitted, but indeed required, to consider both
the reasonableness of the tariff rate and the scope of its powers
to retroactively apply a lower rate if it found the tariff rate to
be unreasonable. Both of these considerations would be part and
parcel of FERC's determination of what amount of interest was
"properly due."
       6
      The dissent states that "[t]o the extent that NEP believes it
unfair that it is bound by FERC's adherence to a reasonable
construction of the court's mandate, its objections come to late."
Dissent at 14. However, we hold that FERC's construction of our
mandate was unreasonable. Accordingly, NEP was under no obligation
to anticipate this construction and seek rehearing.

                                -10-
                                   III.

          "[A]n administrative order 'must stand or fall on the

grounds articulated by the agency' in that order."            NorAm Gas

Transmission Co. v. FERC, 148 F.3d 1158, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1998)

(quoting Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. v. FERC, 948 F.2d 1305,

1312 n.12 (D.C. Cir. 1991)). In this case, FERC's only articulated

ground for the 1998 effective date of the Revised Interest Rate is

its misreading of the scope of our holding in Norwood IV.

          Nonetheless, in its brief on appeal, NEP urges us to go

farther and address the merits of the retroactivity issue itself.

NEP argues that FERC exceeded the limits of its statutory authority

by applying the Revised Interest Rate retroactively and, therefore,

requests that we remand with instructions directing FERC to apply

the Revised Interest Rate only to the late payment charges billed

after June 30, 2006 while applying the 18 percent rate to the

earlier bills.

          We     decline   this   request.   Although   NEP   presented

arguments against retroactive application of the lower rate to

FERC, FERC did not address those arguments or provide an adequate

response to them because the Commission incorrectly concluded that

the arguments were foreclosed by Norwood IV.            See NorAm Gas

Transmission, 148 F.3d at 1165 ("'[I]t most emphatically remains

the duty of this court to ensure that an agency engage the

arguments raised before it . . . .'" (quoting K N Energy, Inc. v.


                                   -11-
FERC, 968 F.2d 1295, 1303 (D.C. Cir. 1992))).   The proper course of

action then is to remand so that the agency may "bring to bear on

the facts the proper administrative and statutory considerations,

a function which belongs exclusively to the Commission in the first

instance."   SEC v. Chenery Corp., 332 U.S. 194, 200 (1947).   As we

observed in a prior case, "[A]nswers [to questions not adequately

addressed in FERC's orders] can be imagined, but it is FERC that

must formulate and adopt them in the first instance."7    Cent. Me.

Power Co. v. FERC, 252 F.3d 34, 48 (1st Cir. 2001).    We therefore

vacate the portion of the orders concerning the effective date of

the Revised Interest Rate and remand to the Commission for full

consideration of the retroactivity issues raised by NEP.

          So ordered.   Each party shall bear its own costs.



                  – DISSENTING OPINION FOLLOWS –




     7
      The dissent states that NEP's retroactivity argument "has
nothing to do with the primary policy rationale for the
retroactivity ban." Dissent at 16 n.1. We properly leave it to
FERC to make this determination in the first instance. If NEP's
arguments are easily dispatched, we trust that FERC will do so.

                               -12-
           CUDAHY, Circuit Judge, dissenting.            The majority has

called for another remand in this stale case to give the Commission

an additional opportunity to restate the conclusion it has already

emphatically declared in its ruling on New England Power’s (NEP’s)

petition for clarification and rehearing.          The result reached by

the Commission here is entirely fair, assessing Norwood as a remedy

for non-payment of a contract termination charge an interest

payment related to the cost of money and denying NEP a windfall of

18 percent interest unrelated to that cost.         See Connecticut Light

& Power, 59 F.P.C. 811, 821 (1977).

           The majority has rejected the Commission’s invocation of

the law of the case doctrine as the basis of its holding that the

prime   rate   of   interest   should   be   assessed   from   the   time   of

rendition of the bill and not from some later date.                  But the

majority has ignored the fact that the Commission has specifically

invoked the terms of the mandate of Town of Norwood v. FERC, 476

F.3d 18 (1st Cir.), cert. denied, 128 S. Ct. 432 (2007) (Norwood

IV). The “mandate rule” “generally requir[es] conformity with the

commands of a superior court on remand, [and] is simply a specific

application of the law of the case doctrine.”            United States v.

Bell, 988 F.2d 247, 251 (1st Cir. 1993).         It is the mandate of the

First Circuit in Norwood IV which is decisive here.

           The language of this Circuit in its Judgment and Mandate

in Norwood IV stated very clearly:


                                   -13-
            [A]s to the interest, we also affirm the order
            insofar as it requires interest payments based on
            at least the prime rate—the figure Norwood itself
            seeks—and remand only as to whether more is
            properly due.

Id. at 29 (emphasis added).

            This mandate leaves no room for the Commission to shorten

the period of assessment of reduced interest payments.     The First

Circuit here also ruled that “whatever the [interest] figure FERC

finds justified, the tariff provides that Norwood owes that amount

from the time the bill was rendered.”     Id.   It is very difficult

for me to understand how FERC could have assessed interest at some

time other than when the bill was rendered in the face of this

mandate from the First Circuit.

            Further, the justifications for the law of the case

doctrine and the related “mandate rule,” namely “stability in the

decisionmaking process, predictability of results, proper working

relationships between trial and appellate courts, and judicial

economy,”   United States v. Connell, 6 F.3d 27, 30 (1st Cir. 1993)

(quoting United States v. Rivera-Martinez, 931 F.2d 148, 151 (1st

Cir.), cert. denied, 502 U.S. 862, 112 S. Ct. 184, 116 L. Ed. 2d

145 (1991)), are borne out by the instant case.    To the extent NEP

believes it unfair that it is bound by FERC’s adherence to a

reasonable construction of the court’s mandate, its objections come

too late.    If it objected to the language of the court’s mandate,

NEP was free to seek rehearing or rehearing en banc or Supreme


                                 -14-
Court review.   NEP has waived the timing concession it now seeks to

recover.    See Sithe New England Holdings, LLC v. FERC, 308 F.3d 71,

75 (1st Cir. 2002) (if FERC had any doubt as to the meaning of the

court’s remand order, “it could easily have sought clarification”).

FERC dutifully followed Norwood IV’s mandate. NEP, having failed to

object to the scope of Norwood IV’s mandate, seeks to add yet

another chapter to a dispute that has dragged on for ten years and

has spawned what is now a total of five decisions from this court.

            The majority suggests that in order to justify the

Commission’s adherence to the inescapable words of the court’s

mandate, at some point in the court proceedings the issue of the

filed rate doctrine or retroactivity must have been raised and

expressly and specifically decided by the First Circuit.     If this

were a matter of issue preclusion (collateral estoppel), it might

have been necessary for retroactivity to have been specifically

addressed. However, the question here is the mandate of the court,

which establishes the limits of Commission action on remand, not

issue preclusion.    And for this purpose, one must only address the

words and meaning of the mandate and be guided by them.   The thesis

of the majority seems to be that the mandate of the First Circuit

may be broadened to include matters that the court did not address

and the authority of the Commission on remand correspondingly

enlarged.    While a lower court or agency can consider “any issue

not expressly or impliedly disposed of on appeal,”        Biggins v.


                                 -15-
Hazen Paper Co., 111 F.3d 205, 209 (1st Cir. 1997) (internal

quotation marks and citation omitted), FERC acted reasonably in

taking the court at its word that on remand, it should consider

only the reasonableness of the interest rate to be applied to late

payments.8

             There is no Chenery issue here since the Commission

relied on the court’s mandate in Norwood IV, which was entirely

proper—in    fact   inescapable.    Hence,   NEP’s   effort   to   raise   a

technical issue of retroactivity by attempting to evade the mandate

of Norwood IV must fail and the Commission’s fair resolution of the

remedy for premature contract termination must stand.

             Therefore, I respectfully dissent.




     8
      It was not unreasonable, as NEP suggests, for FERC to
interpret the Norwood IV mandate as it did merely because Norwood
IV did not discuss the issues of retroactivity and the application
of the filed rate doctrine. In any event, “every time that FERC or
any comparable agency decides that an existing rate is unjust and
orders refunds to buyers for a past period, it is engaging in
permissible ‘retroactive ratemaking’ in a vernacular sense.”
Sithe, 308 F.3d at 78. NEP’s argument here has nothing to do with
the primary policy rationale for the retroactivity ban. “What is
primarily restricted by the [Federal Power Act] . . . is for the
agency to surprise buyers, who paid the tariffed rate for a
service, by telling them that they must now pay an increased price
for past services.” Id. In the words of Sithe: “There are indeed
limits on ‘retroactive ratemaking’; but this is a slogan even more
abused than petitioners’ claims of entitlement to a just and
reasonable . . . rate. (It is further confused by invocations of
a companion notion—the so-called ‘filed rate doctrine,’ a phrase
that covers more than one precept.)” Id. at 77.

                                   -16-
