                      PUBLISHED


UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
             FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT


CHARLES WILLIAM MCHAN,               
             Petitioner-Appellant,
               v.
                                          No. 07-1834
COMMISSIONER, of the Internal
Revenue,
             Respondent-Appellee.
                                     
         Appeal from the United States Tax Court
                   (Tax Ct. No. 92-550)

                Argued: December 3, 2008

               Decided: February 27, 2009

       Before WILKINSON, DUNCAN, and AGEE,
                    Circuit Judges.



Affirmed by published opinion. Judge Duncan wrote the opin-
ion, in which Judge Wilkinson and Judge Agee joined.


                       COUNSEL

ARGUED: Andrew Brady Banzhoff, Asheville, North Caro-
lina, for Appellant. Curtis Clarence Pett, UNITED STATES
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, Washington, D.C., for Appel-
lee. ON BRIEF: Nathan J. Hochman, Assistant Attorney
General, Kenneth L. Greene, Tax Division, UNITED
2                        MCHAN v. CIR
STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, Washington, D.C.,
for Appellee.


                          OPINION

DUNCAN, Circuit Judge:

   Appellant is a convicted drug dealer who failed to report
income from his illegal activities on his federal income tax
returns. The Internal Revenue Service issued a notice of defi-
ciency and the tax court below adjudicated Appellant’s
income and tax liability. On appeal from the tax court, Appel-
lant challenges the tax court’s determination of his illegal
income, argues that the tax court erred in admitting grand jury
testimony into evidence, and argues that the tax court erred in
denying him a new trial. As explained below, we find no error
and affirm.

                               I.

   Appellant, Charles William McHan, participated in the ille-
gal purchase and sale of marijuana from 1984 through 1988.
He failed to report the income from his illegal activities on his
federal income tax returns. This gave rise to two separate pro-
ceedings against McHan: a criminal prosecution, which
included a criminal forfeiture count, and a civil tax collection
pursued by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"). Although
this appeal arises only from the latter, a discussion of the
criminal prosecution is necessary to its analysis.

  McHan was indicted in 1990 by a federal grand jury on
several drug-related counts, including a criminal forfeiture
count pursuant to 21 U.S.C. § 853, which provides that indi-
viduals convicted of certain drug offenses forfeit to the United
States any "proceeds" obtained as a result of such offense.
McHan was convicted on all counts.
                             MCHAN v. CIR                                 3
   After a separate hearing on the criminal forfeiture count,
the district court entered a forfeiture judgment of $395,670
against McHan. To calculate this amount, the district court
first determined the total proceeds from McHan’s marijuana
sales ($1,489,350) and then deducted costs ($857,030) and a
portion of the proceeds attributed to a partner ($236,650). On
appeal, we rejected the district court’s calculation of the for-
feiture amount and vacated the sentence. United States v.
McHan, 101 F.3d 1027, 1041-43 (4th Cir. 1996). We held that
the term "proceeds" in the forfeiture statute did not refer to
net profit, as the district court reasoned, but instead referred
to gross proceeds. Id.1

   At roughly the same time federal prosecutors were building
the criminal case against McHan, the IRS began investigating
McHan for tax evasion. In 1991, the IRS issued McHan a
notice of deficiency. In it, the IRS determined that McHan
and his wife had understated their income in joint federal
income tax returns filed in 1985 and 1986.2 The McHans’
returns, which were prepared by a tax professional, reported
adjusted gross income of $122,352 in 1985, $180,687 in
1986, and a loss of $332,696 in 1987. Those figures did not,
however, include profits from McHan’s drug transactions.
Nor did the McHans provide any documentation regarding
such transactions to their tax return preparer. In issuing
McHan’s notice of deficiency, the IRS reconstructed
McHan’s income, calculating that McHan realized unreported
profits on marijuana transactions of $622,260 in 1985,
$93,275 in 1986, and $200,910 in 1987.3
  1
     The forfeiture judgment has since been satisfied. The government also
filed a civil forfeiture suit against McHan in 1990, but that suit was dis-
missed.
   2
     McHan’s wife was a party to the tax court proceedings below but is not
a party before this court. She was not implicated in any of the illegal drug
transactions.
   3
     Although the notice of deficiency referred to years 1985 and 1986,
reconstructed income from 1987 was relevant because the McHans’ tax
returns for 1985 and 1986 included carry-backs from a net operating loss
claimed for that year.
4                           MCHAN v. CIR
   McHan timely challenged the notice of deficiency and the
matter came before the tax court. McHan moved for summary
judgment arguing, inter alia, that the earlier criminal forfeiture
judgment had already established the amount of his illegal
profits and that the IRS was collaterally estopped from litigat-
ing the amount a second time. The tax court rejected that
argument, holding that collateral estoppel did not apply
because the burden of proof was different in the two proceed-
ings. McHan v. Comm’r, T.C.M. 1997-139, 1997 WL 119805,
at *3 (U.S. Tax Ct. 1997).

   In May 1999 the case was assigned to a Special Trial
Judge, who conducted a four-day trial. See 26 U.S.C.
§ 7443A. According to McHan, the IRS "did not put on evi-
dence that was materially different than that presented in the
criminal forfeiture case." Appellant’s Br. at 7.4 That evidence
included the grand jury testimony of Paul Leroy Cunningham,
who had been a witness in McHan’s criminal prosecution.
Because Cunningham had died shortly after his grand jury
testimony, his testimony was read into the record in McHan’s
criminal trial.

   The Special Trial Judge filed his recommendations with the
tax court on July 7, 2005. McHan objected to the findings and
moved for a new trial, arguing that the IRS waited until the
third day of the trial to disclose the calculations underlying
the notice of deficiency. He also argued that the IRS improp-
erly disclosed grand jury materials in violation of Federal
Rule of Criminal Procedure 6(e).

  In April 2006, the tax court issued a memorandum opinion.
See McHan v. Comm’r, T.C.M. 2006-84, 2006 WL 1073433
(U.S. Tax Ct. 2006). The tax court found that the IRS pre-
sented substantial evidence of the transactions at issue and
    4
    McHan asserts: "It cannot be disputed that the evidence presented in
the Tax Court trial was derivative of and included the evidence presented
at the criminal and criminal forfeiture trials." Appellant’s Br. at 8.
                            MCHAN v. CIR                               5
that the IRS’s deficiency calculations were entitled to "the
usual presumption of correctness" that applies when the tax-
payer fails to maintain adequate records. See Cebollero v.
Comm’r, 967 F.2d 986, 990 (4th Cir. 1992). Nevertheless, in
response to McHan’s objections to the Special Trial Judge’s
recommended findings, the tax court did make several adjust-
ments that were favorable to McHan. First, some $34,500 in
gross profit from a 1985 transaction was subtracted from that
year’s income based on the IRS’s concession that the disputed
transaction did not occur. Second, the tax court allowed losses
of $73,000 and $42,000 in years 1986 and 1987, respectively,
from unprofitable marijuana transactions in Florida. Those
losses had previously been omitted from the IRS’s calcula-
tions. Third, the tax court rejected the IRS’s claim of an addi-
tional transaction in 1985 that was not included in the original
notice of deficiency, concluding that the IRS had presented
insufficient evidence of that transaction. Fourth, the tax court
rejected the IRS’s attempt to add back certain other costs as
improperly deducted. Taking account of these adjustments,
the tax court determined that the McHans had underreported
their income by $587,760 in 1985 and $20,275 in 1986.5

  This appeal followed.

                                   II.

   We have jurisdiction over appeals from the tax court under
26 U.S.C. § 7482. We review decisions of the tax court "on
the same basis as decisions in civil bench trials in United
States district courts." Waterman v. Comm’r, 179 F.3d 123,
126 (4th Cir. 1999). That is, we review findings of fact for
clear error and questions of law de novo. Id.
  5
   In addition to its findings regarding underreported income, the tax
court also imposed penalties for tax underpayments due to fraud, see 26
U.S.C. § 6653(b)(1)-(2), and to substantial understatement of income, see
26 U.S.C. § 6661. McHan does not challenge these penalties on appeal.
6                        MCHAN v. CIR
   McHan makes five arguments on appeal. First, McHan
argues that the amount of his illegal income had previously
been adjudicated in the criminal forfeiture action and, under
the doctrine of collateral estoppel, the tax court was con-
strained to adopt the findings regarding McHan’s income in
the forfeiture judgment. Second, McHan argues that the IRS’s
income calculations were not entitled to the usual presump-
tion of correctness because they varied from the findings of
the forfeiture judgment. Third, McHan argues that the tax
court erred in denying him a new trial because the IRS failed
to disclose the calculations underlying the notice of deficiency
until the third day of the trial. Fourth, McHan argues that he
is entitled to a new trial because the Special Trial Judge who
conducted the trial waited over six years before filing his rec-
ommendations with the tax court. Finally, McHan argues that
the tax court erred in admitting grand jury testimony into evi-
dence in violation of Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 6(e).
We address each argument in turn.

                                A.

   We first address McHan’s collateral estoppel argument.
McHan argues that the amount of his illegal income had
already been adjudicated in the criminal forfeiture action and
that, through collateral estoppel, the tax court was constrained
to accept those findings. We reject this argument.

   The doctrine of collateral estoppel precludes serial litiga-
tion of discrete issues of fact in some situations. It is well set-
tled, however, that the doctrine only applies where (1) the
"identical issue" (2) was actually litigated (3) and was "criti-
cal and necessary" to a (4) "final and valid" judgment (5)
resulting from a prior proceeding in which the party against
whom the doctrine is asserted had a full and fair opportunity
to litigate the issue. Collins v. Pond Creek Mining Co., 468
F.3d 213, 217 (4th Cir. 2006) (citation and quotation marks
omitted); see also S. Bancorporation, Inc. v. Comm’r, 847
F.2d 131, 136 n.5 (4th Cir. 1988). The doctrine does not apply
                           MCHAN v. CIR                               7
"where the party against whom the doctrine is invoked had a
heavier burden of persuasion on that issue in the first action
than he does in the second, or where his adversary has a heav-
ier burden in the second action than he did in the first." Col-
lins, 468 F.3d at 217-18. Nor does the doctrine apply when
the party against whom the doctrine is invoked had the burden
in the first proceeding, but the party seeking to invoke the
doctrine has the burden in the second proceeding. Restate-
ment (2d) of Judgments § 28(4).

   Here, it is undisputed that the burdens in the criminal for-
feiture proceeding and in the tax court not only were different
but also ran in different directions. In the criminal forfeiture
proceeding, the government had the burden of proof beyond
a reasonable doubt. In the tax court, McHan had the burden
of proof by a preponderance of the evidence.6

   Nevertheless, McHan urges us to avoid a "mechanical
application" of this rule. McHan suggests that most cases
applying the rule are ones in which the government loses in
a criminal trial, but then is given a second bite at the apple
under a lower burden of proof in a subsequent civil case.
McHan argues that, because the government prevailed in the
criminal forfeiture trial, it ought to be held to the factual find-
ings of that judgment. See Appellant’s Br. at 10-11. McHan
misunderstands the principle at work. The question is not
whether a party won or lost in the prior proceeding. Rather,
the question is whether the party that would litigate an issue
a second time would have the advantage of a more favorable
burden of proof in the second proceeding. Collins, 468 F.3d
at 217-18. Here, we find nothing incongruous about the gov-
ernment, having first prevailed in the criminal trial, later
securing a more favorable factual determination under the
more favorable burden of proof in the subsequent civil trial.
  6
   In a tax proceeding, the taxpayer bears the burden of overcoming the
presumption of correctness afforded to the IRS’s reconstruction of unre-
ported and undocumented income. Cebollero, 967 F.2d at 990.
8                        MCHAN v. CIR
   Further, the issue on which preclusion is sought is not the
same issue that was actually litigated in the prior proceeding.
The tax court determined McHan’s adjusted gross income
from the illegal transactions. This amount was based on the
proceeds from the illegal transactions, less costs incurred. See
McHan, 2006 WL 1073433. The amount of the criminal for-
feiture, however, was based exclusively on gross proceeds
without regard to costs.

   In addition, we examined the critical difference between
proceeds and income (or profit) in 1996 when we considered
McHan’s criminal forfeiture judgment on appeal. McHan v.
Comm’r, 101 F.3d 1027, 1043 (4th Cir. 1996). In that pub-
lished opinion, we vacated the district court’s initial forfeiture
judgment because it inappropriately accounted for costs in
calculating McHan’s proceeds. Id. at 1043, 1045. We held
that gross "proceeds"—and not profit—was the relevant basis
for a forfeiture judgment under 21 U.S.C. § 853. Id. at 1043.
Even though the district court did initially make findings
regarding costs that would arguably be relevant to the tax
court’s determination of adjusted gross income, those findings
were neither "critical and necessary" to the forfeiture amount
then at issue, nor were they part of a "final and valid" judg-
ment, such as would be required for collateral estoppel to
obtain. Collins, 468 F.3d at 217.

                               B.

   Next, McHan takes issue with the tax court’s application of
the presumption of correctness to the IRS’s determinations of
McHan’s income. Where, as here, a taxpayer fails to maintain
adequate records of income, the IRS is authorized to recon-
struct the taxpayer’s income in order to determine the amount
of any deficiency. Cebollero, 967 F.2d at 989. The IRS’s
determinations are entitled to a presumption of correctness,
meaning that "the taxpayer bears the burden of proving it
wrong." Id. at 990 (citing Welch v. Helvering, 290 U.S. 111,
115 (1933). The IRS is not given free rein, however: the tax-
                        MCHAN v. CIR                         9
payer can rebut the presumption of correctness by proving, by
a preponderance of the evidence, that the IRS’s income deter-
mination is arbitrary or erroneous. Cebollero, 967 F.2d at 992.
The tax court’s determination of whether the taxpayer has met
this burden is reviewed for clear error. Id.

   McHan acknowledges that he had the burden of rebutting
the presumption that the IRS’s calculations were correct.
However, McHan asserts that he met this burden "simply by
referring the Tax Court to the criminal forfeiture judgment."
Appellant’s Br. at 13. That is not enough. As we noted in
rejecting McHan’s collateral estoppel argument, the burden of
proof was higher in the criminal forfeiture proceeding, and
there is nothing incongruous with the government securing a
more favorable civil judgment under a lower burden of proof.

   Separately, relying in part on the criminal forfeiture judg-
ment’s reference to a "criminal enterprise," McHan claims
that the tax court "simply ignored" evidence of his "partner-
ship" with another drug dealer and that a portion of the
income attributed to McHan in 1985 ought to have instead
been attributed to that partner. See Appellant’s Br. 15-17. But
McHan did not raise this argument in the tax court. Instead,
he testified that he received no income whatsoever from the
transactions. McHan testified that he had "never been in the
drug business because when you’re in business, you’re in
something to make a profit" and that he only participated in
the transactions to help out his friends. J.A. 207-08. The tax
court rejected McHan’s altruistic-drug-dealer theory, reason-
ing that "[c]ommon sense would dictate the conclusion that
anyone who is in an illegal and dangerous business such as
the dealing of drugs would demand a very large profit for his
enormous risks." McHan, 2006 WL 1073433 at *7 (quota-
tions and citation omitted). We agree and find no clear error
in the tax court’s determination that McHan failed to meet his
burden of rebutting the presumption of correctness. Cebol-
lero, 967 F.2d at 992.
10                            MCHAN v. CIR
                                      C.

   McHan also challenges the tax court’s denial of his motion
for a new trial. We review a tax court’s denial of a motion for
a new trial for abuse of discretion. Baltimore & O.R. Co. v.
Comm’r, 78 F.2d 460, 465 (4th Cir. 1935).

   McHan, without citing any authority, argues that he was
entitled to a new trial because he was "unfairly surprised" and
"materially prejudiced" when the IRS waited until three days
into the trial to demonstrate the calculations underlying the
notice of deficiency. Appellant’s Br. at 17-18.

   However, to support his collateral estoppel argument,
McHan maintained to the contrary—that "the evidence
adduced [in the tax court] was derivative from, and substan-
tially the same" as that produced in the preceding criminal
trial. Appellant’s Br. at 14. McHan cannot have it both ways.
He cannot argue that he was "surprised" by the presentation
of evidence he himself labeled as "substantially the same" as
that presented in his criminal trial years earlier.7 And McHan
points to no evidence used to support the IRS calculations
underlying the notice of deficiency that was not previously
used in the criminal trial. Accordingly, we hold that the tax
court did not abuse its discretion in denying McHan’s motion
for a new trial on these grounds.

                                     D.

   McHan next argues for a new trial based on the six-year
time period between the trial conducted by the Special Trial
Judge in May 1999 and the filing of the Special Trial Judge’s
  7
    Further, as the tax court noted "at both his criminal trial and [in the tax
court, McHan] generally admitted to his involvement in the marijuana
transactions" and "for the most part [did] not dispute certain facts relied
on by [the IRS] in calculating" McHan’s income. McHan, 2006 WL
1073433 at *7.
                         MCHAN v. CIR                           11
recommendations with the tax court in July 2005. McHan
believes this delay was unreasonable and argues that Rule
183(b) of the Rules of Tax Court includes a timeliness
requirement. Although McHan styles this argument as one
challenging the tax court’s denial of his motion for a new
trial, he does not appear to have raised this argument in his
motion for a new trial below. See J.A. 1091-1102. Out of an
abundance of caution, we address it nevertheless.

  Tax Court Rule 183(b) provides, in pertinent part:

    After all the briefs have been filed by all the parties
    . . . the Special Trial Judge shall file recommended
    findings of fact and conclusions of law . . . in accor-
    dance with Rule 21.

Tax Ct. R. 183(b). Rule 21 deals with methods of service, not
deadlines. See Tax Ct. R. 21. Appellant cites no authority for
the proposition that Rule 183(b) imposes a timeliness require-
ment on when Special Trial Judges must file their findings.
The plain text of Rule 183(b) includes no such requirement,
and we decline to create one.

                                E.

   Lastly, McHan argues that the tax court improperly admit-
ted grand jury materials in violation of Federal Rule of Crimi-
nal Procedure 6(e). Evidentiary rulings of the tax court are
reviewed for abuse of discretion. See Waterman, 179 F.3d at
126 ("We review decisions of the United States Tax Court on
the same basis as decisions in civil bench trials in United
States district courts."); cf. Schultz v. Capital Int’l Sec., Inc.,
466 F.3d 298, 310 (4th Cir. 2006) (applying the abuse-of-
discretion standard in reviewing an evidentiary ruling in a
civil bench trial).

   Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 6(e) upholds the tradi-
tional secrecy of grand jury materials "to the extent and as
12                       MCHAN v. CIR
long as necessary to prevent unauthorized disclosure." Fed. R.
Crim. P. 6(e)(6). However, it is a "common-sense proposition
that secrecy is no longer ‘necessary’ when the contents of
grand jury matters have become public." In re Grand Jury
Subpoena, 438 F.3d 1138, 1140 (D.C. Cir. 2006). Here,
McHan does not dispute that substantially all of the IRS’s evi-
dence in the tax court, including the grand jury testimony of
Paul Leroy Cunningham, had already become part of the pub-
lic record when it was admitted into evidence during
McHan’s earlier criminal trial. Thus, we find no abuse of dis-
cretion in the tax court’s admission of that evidence.

                               III.

     For the foregoing reasons, the opinion below is

                                                  AFFIRMED.
