                       PUBLISHED


UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
            FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT


STACY PLATONE,                         
                         Petitioner,
                 v.
UNITED STATES   DEPARTMENT OF
LABOR,
                       Respondent.        No. 07-1635


EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ADVISORY
COUNCIL; CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

     Amici Supporting Respondent.
                                       
          On Petition for Review of an Order of
         the United States Department of Labor.
                 (04-154; 2003-SOX-27)

                 Argued: September 22, 2008

                 Decided: December 3, 2008

  Before WILLIAMS, Chief Judge, and TRAXLER and
             GREGORY, Circuit Judges.



Affirmed by published opinion. Judge Gregory wrote the
opinion, in which Chief Judge Williams and Judge Traxler
joined.
2          PLATONE v. U. S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
                        COUNSEL

ARGUED: Michael MacKager York, WEHNER & YORK,
Reston, Virginia, for Petitioner. Theresa Schneider Fromm,
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF LABOR, Office of
the Solicitor, Washington, D.C., for Respondent. ON BRIEF:
Jonathan L. Snare, Acting Solicitor of Labor, Steven J. Man-
del, Associate Solicitor, Ellen R. Edmond, Counsel for
Whistleblower Programs, UNITED STATES DEPART-
MENT OF LABOR, Office of the Solicitor, Washington,
D.C., for Respondent. Robin S. Conrad, Shane Brennan,
NATIONAL CHAMBER LITIGATION CENTER, Washing-
ton, D.C., for Amicus Curiae Chamber of Commerce of the
United States of America; Rae T. Vann, Paulos Iyob, NOR-
RIS, TYSSE, LAMPLEY & LAKIS, L.L.P., Washington,
D.C., for Amicus Curiae Equal Employment Advisory Coun-
cil.


                        OPINION

GREGORY, Circuit Judge:

  This case challenges a ruling of the Department of Labor’s
Administrative Review Board ("ARB") denying Stacy Platone
whistleblower protection under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, 18
U.S.C. § 1514A (2006). For the reasons stated herein, the
ARB’s decision is affirmed.

                             I.

   Stacy Platone, Appellant, worked for the Airline Pilots
Association ("ALPA") as a pilot communications specialist.
In the summer of 2002, Atlantic Coast Airlines ("ACA"), a
wholly owned subsidiary of Atlantic Coast Airline Holdings,
Inc., solicited applications for the position of manager of
labor relations. Upon the recommendation of Captain John
            PLATONE v. U. S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR            3
Swigart, a pilot at ACA and chair of ALPA’s local Master
Executive Council, ACA hired Platone to fill the position.
Swigart and Platone were in a relationship at the time; how-
ever, it is disputed whether Jeffrey Rodgers, ACA’s Senior
Director of Labor Relations and Planning—and Platone’s
immediate supervisor—knew of the relationship at the time of
hiring.

   After she started working at ACA, Platone began to notice
discrepancies regarding the airline’s flight-loss process—the
procedure by which the union reimbursed the airline when its
pilots had to miss flights in order to attend union meetings.
Tiffany de Ris, ACA’s Manager of Crew Resources, informed
Platone that ALPA had not been billed for several months of
flight loss.

   Platone obtained the flight-loss records in February 2003
and discovered that pilots were also intentionally scheduling
flights for days on which they were originally not scheduled
to fly and for times at which they knew they would be
required to attend union meetings. In essence, the pilots were
getting paid for days on which they were originally not even
supposed to fly and, in fact, did not fly. ALPA’s policy was
not to pay for missed time on originally scheduled days off.
When Platone alerted Rodgers to the issue, he told her that
ACA would not pay the pilots for the days off if ALPA would
not reimburse ACA. Platone had also informed Captain Chris
Thomas, an ACA pilot and Swigart’s successor at ALPA, of
the discrepancy, and Thomas contacted Rodgers and assured
him that the union would reimburse ACA for the flight loss.

   Platone was not satisfied with the union’s response, and on
March 6, 2003, she sent Rodgers a draft letter, addressed to
Thomas, demanding that ALPA uphold its flight-loss obliga-
tions. The letter also informed Thomas that if ALPA wanted
ACA to continue to pay pilots who attended ALPA business
on days for which they were not originally scheduled to fly,
but which were subsequently voluntarily scheduled, he would
4            PLATONE v. U. S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
need to inform ACA in writing to do so and indicate that
ALPA would reimburse ACA. The following day, Rodgers e-
mailed Platone to inform her that he did not intend to send the
letter that she drafted.

   Platone met with Michelle Bauman, ACA’s Director of
Employment Services, on March 12, 2003. Bauman testified
that Platone mentioned the flight-loss problem during the
meeting, and handwritten notes from Bauman’s assistant veri-
fied that there was a discussion of the issue, though there was
no indication that Platone made allegations of fraud. The fol-
lowing day, Platone met with senior airline officials, who sus-
pended her with pay due to an unspecified conflict of interest.
On March 19, 2003, Platone was officially fired, ostensibly
because of her relationship with Captain Swigart.

   Platone filed a Sarbanes-Oxley whistleblower action with
the Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA")
on April 3, 2003, setting forth the above facts, and for the first
time, making an allegation of fraud. OSHA denied Platone’s
complaint, finding that she failed to establish that she had
engaged in protected activity. On August 14, 2003, Platone
requested a hearing before the Office of Administrative Law
Judges.

   The administrative law judge ("ALJ") found that Platone’s
suspicions of fraud set forth in her OSHA complaint were rea-
sonable, and that by alerting Rodgers and Bauman to the dis-
crepancies, she had engaged in protected activity under the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The ALJ concluded that a fraudulent
scheme to compensate pilots in the hopes of gaining union
contract concessions would necessarily involve the use of the
mail and wires, and would therefore fall under the protection
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The ALJ imputed knowledge of
Platone’s complaints to the managers at ACA responsible for
employment decisions, whether or not they were directly
involved in the dealings. The ALJ further concluded that Pla-
tone’s complaints were a contributing factor to her dismissal.
              PLATONE v. U. S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR                   5
  Given that Platone’s job involved direct dealings with
ALPA, the ALJ found that ACA had a legitimate, non-
pretextual reason for firing Platone. Nevertheless, the ALJ
concluded that it was impossible to separate the legitimate
and improper reasons for firing Platone, and therefore that
ACA failed to meet its burden to show by clear and convinc-
ing evidence that it would have fired Platone even if she had
not come forward with her complaints.

   ACA filed an appeal with the Administrative Review Board
of the Department of Labor ("ARB"), which reversed the
ALJ’s findings. First, the ARB held that allegations of mail
or wire fraud under Sarbanes-Oxley must involve conduct that
is at least "adverse to investors’ interests." Platone v. FLYi,
Inc., ARB Case No. 04-154, 2006 DOLSOX LEXIS 105 at
*29 (ARB Sept. 29, 2006). Second, the ARB held that Pla-
tone’s allegations must relate definitively and specifically to
the categories of fraud or securities violations listed in 18
U.S.C. § 1514A(a)(1) (2006). Id. at *33.

   The ARB concluded that Platone’s e-mails to Rodgers and
meeting with Bauman did not communicate information spe-
cifically enough to indicate possible fraud against sharehold-
ers. Indeed, the ARB concluded that "the real victim of any
alleged impropriety was ALPA" since Platone and Rodgers
had been reassured that ALPA would reimburse ACA for the
flight pay loss. Id. at *42-43. Having reached this conclusion,
the ARB held that Platone failed to provide ACA with spe-
cific information relating to protected activity under
§ 1514A(a)(1), and it therefore declined to address the
remaining issues raised on appeal. Id. at *45-46.

                                  II.

  The whistleblower provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act is
codified at 18 U.S.C. § 1514A(a) (2006).1 The Act incorpo-
  1
   (a) Whistleblower Protection for Employees of Publicly Traded Com-
panies.— No company with a class of securities registered under section
6              PLATONE v. U. S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
rates the rules and procedures set forth in 49 U.S.C.
§ 42121(b) (2000). Because the allegations at issue occurred
in Virginia, jurisdiction is conferred on this Court by 49
U.S.C. § 42121(b)(4).2

12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78l), or that is
required to file reports under section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)), or any officer, employee, contractor, subcon-
tractor, or agent of such company, may discharge, demote, suspend,
threaten, harass, or in any other manner discriminate against an employee
in the terms and conditions of employment because of any lawful act done
by the employee—
         (1) to provide information, cause information to be provided,
         or otherwise assist in an investigation regarding any conduct
         which the employee reasonably believes constitutes a viola-
         tion of section 1341, 1343, 1344, or 1348, any rule or regula-
         tion of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any
         provision of Federal law relating to fraud against sharehold-
         ers, when the information or assistance is provided to or the
         investigation is conducted by—
         (A) a Federal regulatory or law enforcement agency;
         (B) any Member of Congress or any committee of Congress;
         or
         (C) a person with supervisory authority over the employee
         (or such other person working for the employer who has the
         authority to investigate, discover, or terminate misconduct);
         or
         (2) to file, cause to be filed, testify, participate in, or other-
         wise assist in a proceeding filed or about to be filed (with
         any knowledge of the employer) relating to an alleged viola-
         tion of section 1341, 1343, 1344, or 1348, any rule or regula-
         tion of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any
         provision of Federal law relating to fraud against sharehold-
         ers.
  2
    "Any person adversely affected or aggrieved by [a final order of the
Secretary of Labor] may obtain review of the order in the United States
Court of Appeals for the circuit in which the violation, with respect to
which the order was issued, allegedly occurred or the circuit in which the
complainant resided on the date of such violation."
              PLATONE v. U. S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR                     7
   The Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)
(2006), sets forth the standard of review for this action, as ref-
erenced in 49 U.S.C. § 42121(b)(4)(A). The ARB’s findings
of law are reviewed de novo, with due deference accorded by
this Court to the ARB’s interpretation of § 1514A, and the
findings should be set aside if they are "arbitrary, capricious,
an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with
law." 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A) (2000). See also Chevron U.S.A.,
Inc. v. Natural Res. Def. Council, Inc., 467 U.S. 837 (1984);
Welch v. Chao, 536 F.3d 269, 275-76 (4th Cir. 2008).

   The Administrative Procedure Act compels this Court to
uphold the ARB’s findings of fact if they are supported by
substantial evidence. In doing so, however, we also accord a
degree of deference to the factual findings of the ALJ. The
ARB’s standard for reviewing the factual findings of the ALJ
is substantial evidence. 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(E). Substantial evi-
dence is that which is "such relevant evidence as a reasonable
mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion." Con-
sol. Edison Co. v. NLRB, 305 U.S. 197, 229 (1938).

                                  III.

   The ARB ruled below that allegations to management
under the whistleblowing provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act must be definitively and specifically related to one of the
areas accorded protection in § 1514A(a)(1). The Court upheld
this conclusion in Welch, 536 F.3d 269, 276 n.2, where it
accorded Chevron deference to the ARB’s interpretation of
§ 1514A.3

  Factually, the ALJ found that at least Rodgers, Bauman,
  3
    The ARB went further to interpret § 1514A to require the complainant,
when alleging mail or wire fraud, to demonstrate that the fraud would be
adverse to the interests of shareholders or investors. The Welch decision
did not reach this portion of the ARB’s opinion, and because we decide
this case on alternate grounds, neither does our decision today.
8           PLATONE v. U. S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
and Davis were made aware of the flight-loss issue by Pla-
tone, and it imputed knowledge to Moore, the final decision-
maker. Moreover, the ALJ concluded that the scheme alleged
in the OSHA complaint inherently involved the use of mail
and wires—an area protected by the statute. As noted above,
however, the ARB refined the requirements for § 1514A and
determined that Platone failed to provide her superiors with
definitive and specific information regarding the alleged fraud
that was taking place. The ARB reached its conclusion by
reading Platone’s actions as little more than alerting ACA
management to an internal billing issue. We agree with the
ARB and find that Platone failed to make a proper allegation
of fraud.

   As the ALJ noted, ACA was engaged in important contract
negotiations with ALPA at the time of Platone’s complaints.
Platone alleged in her OSHA complaint that by avoiding the
flight-loss issue, ACA was trying to channel money to the
ALPA officials who would be involved in these negotiations
in the hope that ACA would obtain favorable concessions.
Thus, the ALJ concluded that Platone had a reasonable basis
to suspect that ACA officials were engaging in fraud against
the shareholders.

   But the ALJ did not find that Platone clearly articulated her
belief of mail or wire fraud to ACA, and the ARB found that
she clearly did not. It is true that she alerted ACA manage-
ment to a billing discrepancy. Yet, a billing discrepancy, with-
out more, does not equal fraud, and Platone failed to identify
to ACA why she believed the actions related to the discrepan-
cies would violate securities laws and constitute a fraud. The
first time Platone made an actual allegation of fraud was in
her OSHA complaint. Therefore, Platone did not sufficiently
articulate her fraud theory to ACA, and Sarbanes-Oxley does
not afford her whistleblower protection.

   Our holding today does not heighten the requirements for
a complainant’s prima facie showing or otherwise change the
            PLATONE v. U. S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR               9
burden-shifting regime for Sarbanes-Oxley whistleblower
actions. See 49 U.S.C. § 42121(b)(2)(B) (2000). We hold only
that a complainant must alert management to more than the
fact that the company’s near-term profits were affected by
billing discrepancies in order to meet the standard of defini-
tively and specifically alleging mail or wire fraud.

                              IV.

   As a result of our conclusion that Platone failed to establish
a prima facie case for Sarbanes-Oxley whistleblower protec-
tion, we need not address the remaining issue of whether
ACA presented a legitimate, non-pretextual reason for firing
Platone.

  The decision of the ARB is hereby affirmed.

                                                    AFFIRMED
