             United States Court of Appeals
                        For the First Circuit


No. 08-1311

                          MARTEX FARMS, S.E.,

                              Petitioner,

                                  v.

            UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY,

                              Respondent.


            ON PETITION FOR REVIEW OF A FINAL ORDER OF THE

               UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL APPEALS BOARD


                                Before

                  Torruella and Stahl, Circuit Judges,
                  and García-Gregory,* District Judge.



     Romano A. Zampierollo-Rheinfeldt for petitioner.
     Angeline Purdy, Environmental Defense Section, with whom
Ronald J. Tenpas, Assistant Attorney General, John C. Cruden,
Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Danielle Fidler, Office of
Enforcement and Compliance Assurance, and Angela Huskey, Office of
General Counsel, were on brief for respondent.



                             March 5, 2009




     *
         Of the District of Puerto Rico, sitting by designation.
               STAHL,    Circuit      Judge.      Appellant      Martex    Farms,    S.E.

appeals a final decision and order of the Environmental Appeals

Board       ("the    Board"),      which   held    Martex     liable      for   numerous

violations of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide

Act (FIFRA), 7 U.S.C. § 136 et seq.                Having carefully reviewed the

record,      we     affirm   the    Board's    decision     in    full,    as   to   both

liability and penalty.

                                    I.     Background

               Martex is one of the largest commercial farms in Puerto

Rico, employing three to four hundred agricultural workers and

generating a gross annual income of over $10 Million.                       The Martex

operation consists of five farms growing fruit, vegetables, and

ornamental plants.           Because Martex uses pesticides as part of its

agricultural methods, it is subject to the Worker Protection

Standard (WPS), 40 C.F.R. pt. 170, which is enforced by the

Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).                    The WPS is intended to

reduce the risk of illness and injury to workers1 and handlers2 who

are exposed to pesticides during the course of employment.                        See 40

C.F.R. § 170.1.         Any failure to comply with the WPS when using a

pesticide is a violation of FIFRA.                 See 40 C.F.R. § 170.9(a).


     1
      A "worker" is defined by the regulations as "any person . .
. who is performing activities relating to the production of
agricultural plants." 40 C.F.R. § 170.3.
        2
      A "handler" is defined by the regulations as "any person .
. . [w]ho is . . . [m]ixing, loading, transferring or applying
pesticides." 40 C.F.R. § 170.3.

                                            -2-
                   In 2003, the Puerto Rico Department of Agriculture and

the EPA initiated a series of inspections of Martex's operations.

Based on those inspections, on January 28, 2005, the EPA filed an

administrative complaint against Martex.                           The EPA's Second Amended

Complaint alleged 336 violations of FIFRA by Martex.                                       The EPA

accused Martex of failing to meet several rather commonsense and

straightforward                WPS        requirements,         including     (1)      displaying

information             for      workers          and    handlers     regarding           pesticide

application; (2) providing decontamination supplies for workers and

handlers in easily accessible locations; and (3) providing handlers

with        personal          protective          equipment.3         As    to      the     posting

requirement,             the     regulations            require    the     employer       to   post

information about pesticide applications made within the last 30

days,        at    a    central,          accessible      location.         See   40      C.F.R.   §

170.122(a).             As to the decontamination supplies, employers must

provide workers with soap, single-use towels, and water for washing

and    emergency          eye    flushing.              These   supplies     must    be    located

together, within 1/4 mile of each work site.                                 See 40 C.F.R. §

170.150(c).             In addition, pesticide handlers must also be provided

with sufficient water for whole-body washing and access to a clean

change        of       clothes       in    case    of    emergency.         See   40      C.F.R.   §

170.250(b).




        3
            This third category of violations is not at issue on appeal.

                                                    -3-
            An administrative law judge issued a Partial Accelerated

Decision (the equivalent of a summary judgment ruling) on October

4, 2005, holding Martex liable for 125 violations of FIFRA.                   In

addition, the ALJ held a five-day hearing as to the remaining

counts, and thereafter found Martex liable for an additional 45

FIFRA violations.         The ALJ assessed Martex a total penalty of

$92,620    for    the   170   FIFRA    violations.     Martex    appealed   this

decision to the Environmental Appeals Board, which upheld the ALJ's

liability findings in full, and granted the EPA's cross-appeal by

recalculating the assessed penalty and raising it to $163,680.

            Martex now appeals the Board's decision as to both

liability and penalty.         Martex raises four issues on appeal, none

of which need detain us long.

                                   II. Discussion

            Our    review     of    the     Board's   conclusions   is     highly

deferential.      By statute, we will sustain the Board's order "if it

is supported by substantial evidence when considered on the record

as a whole."      7 U.S.C. § 136n(b).        In addition, we will sustain the

EPA's     interpretation       of     its    own   regulations    unless    that

interpretation is "arbitrary, capricious, or otherwise plainly

impermissible."         Pepperell Assocs. v. EPA, 246 F.3d 15, 22 (1st

Cir. 2001) (internal quotation omitted).                 We also review the

Board's penalty assessment with heightened deference.               See Sultan

Chemists, Inc. v. EPA, 281 F.3d 73, 83 (3d Cir. 2002); see also


                                          -4-
Butz     v.   Glover   Livestock    Comm'n     Co.,     411   U.S.   182,     185

(1973)("[W]here Congress has entrusted an administrative agency

with the responsibility of selecting the means of achieving the

statutory policy, the relation of remedy to policy is peculiarly a

matter    for    administrative     competence.")      (internal     quotations

omitted).

a. Selective Prosecution Claim

              Martex first argues, as it did before the Board, that the

EPA's    enforcement    action     amounted    to    selective   prosecution.

However, Martex fails to flesh out the basis for this claim.                   As

best we can tell, appellant would have us conclude that the EPA

engaged in selective prosecution merely because, as Martex alleges,

the EPA left "untouched the rest of Puerto Rico's agricultural

community."      This is not enough to support such a claim.                As we

unequivocally stated in a recent decision, "The essence of [a

selective prosecution claim] is that a prosecutor has pursued a

case for a constitutionally impermissible reason, such as the

defendant's race, religion, or other characteristic cognizable

under equal protection principles."            United States v. Lewis, 517

F.3d 20, 25 (1st Cir. 2008).                Martex fails to make even an

allegation that the EPA used such a constitutionally impermissible

ground as the basis of its prosecution.             Therefore, Martex's claim

in this regard is utterly without legal basis and necessarily

fails.


                                      -5-
b. Full and Fair Opportunity

           Next, Martex asserts that it was deprived of a full and

fair opportunity to present its case before the ALJ.               While its

argument   in   this    regard   is   scattered   and   poorly   defined,    we

endeavor to address Martex's concerns in an orderly fashion.                The

factual basis for this claim revolves around the exclusion of

certain witnesses by the ALJ on relevancy grounds, the alleged

discrepancy in Spanish-English translation between two documents

presented at trial, and the service of process.             The service of

process claim was not raised below, and therefore is waived.

Vineberg v. Bissonnette, 548 F.3d 50, 57-58 (1st Cir. 2008).                The

translation issue was also not raised below, and therefore suffers

the same fate.    Id.

           As to the witness issue, the ALJ denied Martex's motion

to depose four witnesses who Martex said would shed light on its

theory of selective prosecution. Because the ALJ found that Martex

had failed to make out an even rudimentary claim for selective

prosecution, Martex's proposed witnesses were excluded. We find no

fault with this conclusion.           Martex also complains that it was

unable to subpoena eight employees of the Puerto Rico Department of

Agriculture and/or the Puerto Rico office of the EPA.                The ALJ

denied Martex's motion to subpoena these witness because FIFRA does

not authorize the administrative tribunal to compel testimony at

deposition or hearing. See, e.g., In re Chempace Corp., EPA Docket


                                      -6-
No. 5-IFFRA-96-017, 1997 WL 881227 (order Denying Motions, Feb. 27,

1997).       Again, we find no fault with this conclusion.

                  Thus, we find no basis for Martex's claim that it was

unable to fully and fairly defend itself in this matter.                   We also

note       that    Martex    received   a   five-day     administrative   hearing,

presented numerous pretrial and post-trial motions, fully briefed

its appeal before the Board, and submitted an appendix numbering

657 pages to this court -- a testament to the thorough treatment

this matter has received at all levels.

c. Substantial Evidence Claim

                  Martex    also   contests       the   substantive   findings   of

liability made below. The crux of Martex's argument in this regard

is that its farms contain abundant sources of water, such as lakes,

streams, and fruit washing facilities, which are sufficient to

comply with the WPS standards.              However, neither in its brief nor

at oral argument did Martex allege that these water sources were

grouped together with the required soap and paper towels, or that

they were available within 1/4 mile of the work sites, as required

by regulations.            Indeed, substantial evidence in the record points

to the opposite conclusion. We therefore see no basis for reversal

as to the substantive violations.4


       4
      We also reject as irrelevant Martex's assertion that it
should not be held liable for violating the WPS because it
allegedly has a general record of excellent safety performance,
has made a genuine effort to reduce the use of pesticides, and has
undertaken post-enforcement corrective measures.

                                            -7-
d. Penalty

           Finally, Martex contests the penalty imposed by the

Board,    calling     it   "exaggerated,     totally    unreasonable,

disproportionate and not related whatsoever to the alleged FIFRA

violations."    We disagree.   As a preliminary matter, we note that

Martex did not seek reconsideration of the penalty before the

Board, which it was entitled to do.          See 40 C.F.R. § 22.32.

Therefore, it is not clear that this claim was properly raised

below.   Regardless, because we afford great deference to the Board

in determining penalties, see Sultan, 281 F.3d at 83, we deny

Martex's claim of disproportionality.      The maximum statutory fine

for each violation of FIFRA committed by Martex is $1,100.       The

Board conducted a deliberate and rigorous evaluation of the proper

penalty as to each violation, never assessed an amount greater than

$1,100 for any violation, and in several cases assessed a much

lower penalty.      One of the factors it considered was Martex's

ability to pay the proposed penalty.    We therefore find no error.

See Newell Recycling Co. v. EPA, 231 F.3d 204, 210 (5th Cir. 2000)

("[I]f the fine does not exceed the limits prescribed by the

statute authorizing it, the fine does not violate the Eighth

Amendment.").

                           III. Conclusion

           For the foregoing reasons, we affirm the decision below

in full, as to both liability and penalty.


                                  -8-
