 United States Court of Appeals
         FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT



Argued September 10, 2008          Decided February 13, 2009

                         No. 07-1312

 NATIONAL CABLE & TELECOMMUNICATIONS ASSOCIATION,
                    PETITIONER

                              v.

   FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION AND UNITED
               STATES OF AMERICA,
                  RESPONDENTS

    QWEST COMMUNICATIONS INTERNATIONAL INC. AND
                    VERIZON,
                  INTERVENORS


             On Petition for Review of an Order
        of the Federal Communications Commission



     Matthew A. Brill argued the cause for petitioner. With him
on the briefs were J. Scott Ballenger, Melissa B. Arbus, Daniel
L. Brenner, Neal M. Goldberg, and Loretta P. Polk.

     Helgi C. Walker argued the cause for intervenors. With her
on the brief were Andrew G. McBride, Brett A. Shumate,
Michael E. Glover, Karen Zacharia, and Robert B. McKenna
Jr..
                                2

     Joel Marcus, Counsel, Federal Communications
Commission, argued the cause for respondents. With him on the
brief were Thomas O. Barnett, Assistant Attorney General, U.S.
Department of Justice, Catherine G. O'Sullivan and Nancy C.
Garrison, Attorneys, Matthew B. Berry, General Counsel,
Federal Communications Commission, Joseph R. Palmore,
Deputy General Counsel, and Richard K. Welch, Acting Deputy
Associate Counsel.

    Before: RANDOLPH, ROGERS and TATEL, Circuit Judges.

    Opinion for the Court filed by Circuit Judge RANDOLPH.

       RANDOLPH, Circuit Judge: Whenever someone makes a
call on a telephone or a cell phone, that person’s
telecommunications carrier receives information about who was
called, when, and for how long. Carriers also have records
about the kinds of services and features their customers
purchase.      More than twenty years ago, the Federal
Communications Commission required carriers to maintain the
confidentiality of such information if their customers so
requested. In re Furnishing of Customer Premises Equipment
and Enhanced Services by American Telephone & Telegraph
Co., 102 F.C.C.2d 655, ¶¶ 64–67 (1985).                       The
Telecommunications Act of 1996 also imposed on carriers a
“duty to protect the confidentiality of proprietary information of
. . . consumers.” 47 U.S.C. § 222(a). Although § 222 permitted
carriers to use customer information within the confines of the
existing service relationship, it prohibited carriers from
otherwise using, disclosing or allowing access to such
information except “as required by law” or “with the approval
of the customer.” Id. § 222(c)(1). The issues presented in this
petition for judicial review deal with the validity of the
Commission’s latest order specifying how carriers are to obtain
their customers’ approval.
                                3

                                I.

     Under the 1996 Act, “customer proprietary network
information” consists of information relating to the “quantity,
technical configuration, type, destination, location, and amount
of use of a telecommunications service subscribed to by any
customer of a telecommunications carrier.” 47 U.S.C.
§ 222(h)(1). This statutory definition of what we will refer to as
“customer information” encompasses customers’ particular
calling plans and special features, the pricing and terms of their
contracts for those services, and details about who they call and
when. Some carriers may use this information to market
specific services or upgrades to their customers, tailored to
individual usage patterns. Other carriers, especially smaller
ones and new market entrants, may find it more efficient to enter
into agreements with joint venturers or independent contractors
to conduct such targeted marketing.

     In its 1998 Order implementing the confidentiality mandate
of the 1996 Act, the Commission interpreted § 222 as setting out
two categories of uses of customer information: those uses to
which customers implicitly consent simply by subscribing to a
carrier’s services, and those for which the carrier would have to
obtain express customer approval. Implementation of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996: Telecommunications Carriers’
Use of Customer Proprietary Network Information and Other
Customer Information, 13 F.C.C.R. 8061, ¶ 23 (1998) (“1998
Order”). To delineate the bounds of implicit customer approval,
the Commission adopted the “total service approach,” which
turned on a distinction between three traditional categories of
telecommunications services: local telephone service,
interexchange (primarily long distance calling service), and
commercial mobile radio services (primarily mobile or cellular
phone service). Id. ¶¶ 24, 27; see also 47 C.F.R. § 64.2005(a).
The 1998 Order provided that carriers could infer customer
                                4

approval within the confines of existing service in one or more
of the categories above. 1998 Order ¶ 25. Implicit approval
also extended to customer information sharing with carriers’
affiliates who provide one of the other service types within the
existing service relationship between the customer and the
carrier. Id. ¶ 51. But if carriers wished to use or disclose
customer information outside of the existing relationship, even
in communications with their customers, the Commission
determined that customers had to consent, affirmatively and
explicitly, ahead of time. Id. ¶ 87. This approach became
known as the “opt-in” method.

     In U.S. West, Inc. v. FCC, 182 F.3d 1224 (10th Cir. 1999),
the court of appeals held that the 1998 Order’s opt-in consent
requirement amounted to an unconstitutional restriction on the
carriers’ First Amendment right to speak to their customers. Id.
at 1240. Relying on Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corp. v.
Public Service Commission of New York, 447 U.S. 557 (1980),
the court ruled that the Commission had not satisfied “its burden
of showing that the customer approval regulations restrict no
more speech than necessary to serve the asserted state interests.”
U.S. West, 182 F.3d at 1239. The court cited a lack of evidence
that “customers do not want carriers to use their” information;
even if there were such evidence, the court thought the
Commission had failed to show “that an opt-out strategy would
not sufficiently protect consumer privacy.” Id.

     In response to the Tenth Circuit’s decision, the Commission
initiated a new rulemaking proceeding and issued an order
modifying its regulations.        See Implementation of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996: Telecommunications Carriers’
Use of Customer Proprietary Network Information and Other
Customer Information, 17 F.C.C.R. 14860 (2002) (“2002
Order”). The Commission stated that “in light of U.S. West we
now conclude that an opt-in rule for intra-company use [between
                                 5

a carrier and its affiliates] cannot be justified based on the record
we have before us.” Id. ¶ 31. The Commission took into
account customers’ interest in learning of their carriers’ service
offerings and what it perceived as a lower risk of infringement
of personal privacy when customer information is shared within
an organization. The Commission therefore required only opt-
out approval for the sharing of customer information between a
carrier and its affiliates for communications-related purposes.
Id. ¶¶ 33S40. The Commission prescribed the content, form,
and frequency of the notice and opt-out process, pursuant to
which the approval of customers would be presumed unless they
specifically told their carriers not to share the information. Id.
¶¶ 41, 43, 89–106.

     The 2002 Order also allowed carriers to share customer
information with joint venture partners or independent
contractors for marketing communications-related services.
2002 Order ¶¶ 47S49. But the Commission recognized a
heightened personal privacy risk associated with these third
parties because they did not qualify as “carriers” under the
Telecommunications Act and thus were not subject to § 222’s
confidentiality requirements. Id. ¶ 46. The Commission
therefore ordered carriers and their joint venture partners or
independent contractors to enter into confidentiality agreements
to safeguard customer information, in addition to the opt-out
notices sent to customers. Id. ¶ 47. Carriers were apparently
content with this state of affairs; no challenges were mounted
against the 2002 Order.

     The Electronic Privacy Information Center petitioned in
2005 for further rulemaking to modify the Commission’s
customer information sharing rules. The petition noted the
increasing number of “data brokers” – organizations that sell
private information about individuals online – and expressed
concern about how easily these organizations are able to obtain
                               6

the information from carriers and other entities. Pet. for
Rulemaking at 5S8. The petition suggested that data brokers
might obtain the information from customer service
representatives by pretending to have proper authority to receive
it (known as “pretexting”), by gaining unauthorized access to
consumers’ online accounts with carriers (by hacking, for
example), or through “dishonest insiders” working for the
carriers. Id. at 1. Concerned that inadequate privacy protections
contributed to the data broker problem, the Commission initiated
a new rulemaking proceeding, received comments, and issued
the Order at issue in this case. See Implementation of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996: Telecommunications Carriers’
Use of Customer Proprietary Network Information and Other
Customer Information, 22 F.C.C.R. 6927 (2007) (“2007 Order”).

     Two months before the Commission adopted the 2007
Order, Congress passed the Telephone Records and Privacy
Protection Act of 2006, Pub. L. No. 109-476, 120 Stat. 3568
(codified at 18 U.S.C. § 1039). The statute imposed criminal
penalties for pretexting, 18 U.S.C. § 1039(a)(1)S(3);
unauthorized access to consumer accounts online, id.
§ 1039(a)(4); selling or transferring customer information,
presumably by either data brokers or dishonest company
insiders, id. § 1039(b); and knowing purchase or receipt of
fraudulently obtained customer information, id. § 1039(c).
Congress found that unauthorized disclosure of customer
information “not only assaults individual privacy but, in some
instances, may further acts of domestic violence or stalking,
compromise the personal safety of law enforcement officers,
their families, victims of crime, witnesses, or confidential
informants, and undermine the integrity of law enforcement
investigations.” Telephone Records and Privacy Protection Act
§ 2(5).
                                 7

     In its 2007 Order the Commission changed, for the third
time, its requirements for the form of customer approval
necessary to satisfy 47 U.S.C. § 222. Relying on “new
circumstances” to justify its altered approach, the Commission
now required carriers to “obtain opt-in consent from a customer
before disclosing that customer’s [information] to a carrier’s
joint venture partner or independent contractor for the purpose
of marketing communications-related services to that customer.”
2007 Order ¶ 37. The Commission distinguished joint venture
partners and independent contractors from affiliates for two
reasons. First, it determined that information shared with third-
party marketers is subject to a greater risk of loss once out of the
carrier’s actual control; and second, it determined that those
third parties would not likely be subject to the confidentiality
requirements of § 222 because they are not themselves carriers.
Id. ¶ 39. It would not sufficiently protect consumer privacy, the
Commission found, for carriers simply to terminate their
relationships with third parties who lose customer information,
or for the Commission to rely on enforcement proceedings in the
case of unauthorized disclosure: at that point, the damage has
already been done. Id. ¶ 42. The Commission also found, based
on studies brought to its attention during the rulemaking process,
that consumers were less amenable to the sharing of their private
information with third parties without their express prior
authorization. Id. ¶ 40. It thus concluded that before carriers
could share customer information with joint venture partners or
independent contractors, the customers had to consent expressly
to such sharing. Id. ¶¶ 39, 45.

                                 II

    Petitioner and intervenors (collectively, “petitioners”) think
the 2007 Order violates the First Amendment to the
Constitution, or is arbitrary in violation of the Administrative
Procedure Act, or both. Whatever the heading, their argument
                                8

is basically the same – that the administrative record does not
support the Commission’s Order. There is nothing to this.

     Before we get to the record we need to be precise about
petitioners’ position. They have not even attempted to mount an
argument that the 2007 Order misinterprets § 222 and so we will
assume that the Commission has faithfully adhered to the
statute. Nor have they claimed that § 222 violates the First
Amendment, or that it is arbitrary or capricious. The question
naturally arises: if the First Amendment did not bar Congress (in
§ 222) from requiring carriers to obtain their customers’ consent,
how can it be that the First Amendment bars the Commission
from implementing § 222 by requiring customer consent?
Petitioners give this answer: “Both the First Amendment and
the Administrative Procedure Act . . . require that the
Commission . . . support its assertions with evidence before it
may restrict the communication of truthful, lawfully obtained
information between carriers and their marketing partners, and
the ways that carriers may communicate with their existing
customers.” Pet’r Br. 19–20 (emphasis in original). They say
this evidence is needed because the “selective opt-in
requirement” is more restrictive than the opt-out system it
replaced. Id. at 20.

      It is true that in some First Amendment cases the Supreme
Court has demanded an evidentiary showing in support of a
state’s law. See, e.g., Turner Broad. Sys., Inc. v. FCC, 520 U.S.
180, 195 (1997); Edenfield v. Fane, 507 U.S. 761, 770–71
(1993). It is also true that in other First Amendment cases the
Supreme Court has found “various unprovable assumptions”
sufficient to support the constitutionality of state and federal
laws, particularly laws regulating business. Paris Adult Theater
I v. Slaton, 413 U.S. 49, 61 (1973). But this case comes to us in
a different posture. By conceding the constitutionality of § 222,
petitioners necessarily concede at least two factual predicates
                                9

underlying both the statute and the Commission’s Order –
namely, that the government has a substantial interest in
protecting the privacy of customer information and that
requiring customer approval advances that interest. We put the
matter in these terms because all parties proceed on the basis
that what we have here is a regulation of commercial speech,
and that the validity of the regulation must therefore be tested
according to the standards set forth in Central Hudson, 447 U.S.
at 566: the speech must “at least concern lawful activity and not
be misleading”; the “governmental interest [must be]
substantial”; the regulation must “directly advance[] the
governmental interest asserted”; and the regulation must not be
“more extensive than is necessary to serve that interest.” We too
will assume that Central Hudson controls.

      The first part of Central Hudson is not in play so we turn
to the second – is there a “substantial” governmental interest?
Petitioners seem to recognize that they cannot contest the point
in light of their agreement that § 222 is constitutional. Pet’r Br.
29. Still, we think it important – particularly in light of the
Tenth Circuit’s opinion in U.S. West – to spell out the nature of
the governmental interest at stake. The Tenth Circuit supposed
that § 222 sought to promote a governmental interest in
protecting against the disclosure of “information [that] could
prove embarrassing,” and it doubted whether this interest could
be deemed “substantial.” U.S. West, 182 F.3d at 1235. We do
not share the Tenth Circuit’s doubt. For one thing, we have
already held, in an analogous context, that “protecting the
privacy of consumer credit information” is a “substantial”
governmental interest, as Central Hudson uses the term. Trans
Union Corp. v. FTC, 245 F.3d 809, 818 (D.C. Cir. 2001). For
another thing, we do not agree that the interest in protecting
customer privacy is confined to preventing embarrassment as the
Tenth Circuit thought. There is a good deal more to privacy
than that. It is widely accepted that privacy deals with
                                  10

determining for oneself when, how and to whom personal
information will be disclosed to others. See Daniel J. Solove,
Conceptualizing Privacy, 90 CAL. L. REV. 1087, 1109–10
(2002). The Supreme Court knows this as well as Congress:
“both the common law and the literal understandings of privacy
encompass the individual’s control of information concerning
his or her person.” U.S. Dep’t of Justice v. Reporters Comm. for
Freedom of Press, 489 U.S. 749, 763 (1989).*

      The next question that must be posed under Central Hudson
is whether the Commission’s 2007 Order “directly advances”
the governmental interest just identified. Here again petitioners’
agreement that § 222 complies with the First Amendment all but
settles the issue. The privacy of customer information cannot be
preserved unless there are restrictions on the carrier’s disclosure
of it. See Trans Union Corp. v. FTC (Trans Union II), 267 F.3d
1138, 1142 (D.C. Cir. 2001), denying reh’g in 245 F.3d 809
(D.C. Cir. 2001). And the restriction Congress imposed was
customer approval. But petitioners say the Commission violated
the First Amendment by implementing this congressional
requirement with an opt-in system. According to petitioners, the
record does not indicate that joint venturers or independent
contractors have disclosed customer information to others. Pet’r

        *
            After the U.S. West decision, when Congress criminalized
unauthorized disclosure of customer information, it found that “the
unauthorized disclosure of telephone records not only assaults
individual privacy but, in some instances, may further acts of domestic
violence or stalking, compromise the personal safety of law
enforcement officers, their families, victims of crime, witnesses, or
confidential informants, and undermine the integrity of law
enforcement investigations.” Telephone Records and Privacy
Protection Act § 2(5). The Commission relied on these and related
Congressional findings in its 2007 Order, e.g., 2007 Order ¶ 44, and
it also learned of specific incidents that confirmed some of the dangers
Congress enumerated, id. ¶ 12 n.31.
                               11

Br. 30. This argument, by focusing on what happens after a
joint venturer or independent contractor receives the
information, performs a sort of sleight of hand. It diverts
attention from the fact that the carrier’s sharing of customer
information with a joint venturer or an independent contractor
without the customer’s consent is itself an invasion of the
customer’s privacy – the very harm the regulation targets. In
addition, common sense supports the Commission’s
determination that the risk of unauthorized disclosure of
customer information increases with the number of entities
possessing it. The Commission therefore reasonably concluded
that an opt-in consent requirement directly and materially
advanced the interests in protecting customer privacy and in
ensuring customer control over the information. The 2007
Order’s “means and ends are thus one,” Trans Union II, 267
F.3d at 1143.

     This brings us to Central Hudson’s final requirement that
the restriction on commercial speech must be “no more broad or
no more expansive than necessary to serve its substantial
interests.” Bd. of Trs. of State Univ. of N.Y. v. Fox, 492 U.S.
469, 476 (1989) (internal quotation marks omitted). The
government does not have to show that it has adopted the least
restrictive means for bringing about its regulatory objective; it
does not have to demonstrate a perfect means–ends fit; and it
does not have to satisfy a court that it has chosen the best
conceivable option. Id. at 476–81. The only condition is that
the regulation be proportionate to the interests sought to be
advanced. Id. at 480; see also Fla. Bar v. Went For It, Inc., 515
U.S. 618, 632 (1995). The 2007 Order easily meets this
standard.

    The Commission’s opt-in consent scheme presumes that
consumers do not want their information shared unless they
expressly indicate otherwise; an opt-out scheme, which is what
                               12

petitioners want, presumes the opposite. Confronted with a
challenge analogous to this one, we held that opt-out is only
“‘marginally less intrusive’” than opt-in for First Amendment
purposes and so upheld a nearly identical regime requiring opt-
in consent for the sharing of customer credit information. Trans
Union II, 267 F.3d at 1143 (quoting Turner Broad. Sys., 520
U.S. at 217–18). In that case we did not require exhaustive
evidence documenting the necessity of opt-in over opt-out; we
relied on Congress’s reasonable, commonsense determination
that express customer consent was required. In any event, here
the Commission carefully considered the differences between
these two regulatory approaches, and the evidence supports the
Commission’s decision to prefer opt-in consent. Unlike the
1998 Order at issue in U.S. West, the 2007 Order required opt-in
consent only with respect to a carrier’s sharing of customer
information with third-party marketers. The evidence showed
that customers were less willing to have their information shared
with third parties as opposed to affiliated entities. And the
Commission reasonably concluded that customer information
would be at a greater risk of disclosure once out of the control
of the carriers and in the hands of entities not subject to § 222.
Contractual safeguards requiring the carrier to terminate its
relationship with the third party after a breach – a solution
carriers favored – would not sufficiently protect customer
privacy because, the Commission stated, “the damage is already
inflicted upon the customer.” 2007 Order ¶ 42.

                               III

     Petitioners’ claim under the Administrative Procedure Act,
5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A), fails for the same reasons we reject their
First Amendment claim: substantial evidence supported the
Commission’s 2007 Order and its reasoning cannot be faulted.
There is one wrinkle in administrative law that petitioners seek
to use to their advantage. When an agency departs from its
                               13

previous policy, it must give a “reasoned analysis” for the
change. See Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Ass’n of U.S. v. State Farm
Mut. Auto. Ins. Co., 463 U.S. 29, 42 (1983). The argument is
that the Commission acted arbitarily when, in light of evidence
of unauthorized disclosures by carriers, it reversed the policy of
its 2002 Order and imposed greater restrictions on the carriers’
sharing of customer information with third-party marketing
partners. Intervenors’ Br. 25.

     Petitioners think National Fuel Gas Supply Corp. v. FERC,
468 F.3d 831 (D.C. Cir. 2006), supports their position. We think
not. In National Fuel, 468 F.3d at 833, the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission extended Standards of Conduct that
applied to commercial relationships between natural gas
pipelines and their marketing affiliates to apply equally to the
pipelines’ non-marketing affiliates, such as producers, gatherers,
processors, and traders. The court held that, to justify this
extension of the Standards, the Commission had to present
evidence of the kinds of abuses that could occur between
pipelines and their affiliates who did not perform marketing
services. Id. at 841. Evidence of abuses between pipelines and
marketing affiliates, being different in kind from the abuses that
would occur with non-marketing affiliates, could not justify a
regulation imposed on those non-marketing affiliate
relationships. Id. at 842. In contrast, here the governmental
interest and potential harms are the same for customer
information in the hands of carriers, affiliates, or third-party
marketing partners. The Commission explained that customer
information could be illegally obtained by the same methods
from any organization, regardless of the nature of the entity.

     Accordingly, because the Commission returned to a limited
opt-in consent requirement in response to the increasing activity
of data brokers, and because it gave sufficient reasons for
singling out the relationships between carriers and third-party
                            14

marketing partners, we hold that the Commission adequately
provided the reasoned analysis State Farm requires.


                   The petition for judicial review is denied.
