24-1733-ag
Verizon Commc’ns Inc. v. Fed. Commc’ns Comm’n




                   United States Court of Appeals
                      For the Second Circuit

                                  August Term 2024
                                Argued: April 29, 2025
                              Decided: September 10, 2025

                                        No. 24-1733


                          VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.,

                                          Petitioner,

                                               v.

                     FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION,

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

                                       Respondents.∗


                       On Petition for Review of an Order
                  of the Federal Communications Commission



∗
    The Clerk of Court is respectfully directed to amend the caption as set forth above.




                                               1
Before:       Lynch, Lee, and Nathan, Circuit Judges.

      Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) petitions for review of
a forfeiture order of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
imposing a $46.9 million penalty for violating § 222 of the
Communications Act and its implementing regulations. The FCC
imposed the forfeiture due to Verizon’s purported failure to
reasonably safeguard a category of statutorily protected information
known as “customer proprietary network information.”
      On appeal, Verizon argues that (1) § 222 does not cover device-
location data, (2) the FCC’s liability finding was arbitrary and
capricious, (3) the penalty exceeds the statutory cap, and (4) the
imposition of the forfeiture, without a jury trial, violated its Seventh
Amendment rights.
      We conclude that device-location data is statutorily protected,
that the FCC reasonably determined Verizon’s liability, and that the
forfeiture order neither violates the applicable statutory limits nor
Verizon’s asserted Seventh Amendment rights.            Accordingly, we
DENY the petition.




                                        SCOTT       H.     ANGSTREICH
                                        (Aaseesh P. Polavarapu, on the
                                        brief), Kellogg, Hansen, Todd,
                                        Figel & Frederick, PLLC,
                                        Washington,       D.C.,     for
                                        Petitioner.




                                   2
                                     SCOTT M. NOVECK, Counsel (P.
                                     Michele        Ellison,  General
                                     Counsel, Jacob M. Lewis,
                                     Deputy General Counsel,
                                     Sarah E. Citrin, Deputy
                                     Associate General Counsel, on
                                     the brief), for Respondent Federal
                                     Communications Commission;

                                     Doha G. Mekki, Acting
                                     Assistant Attorney General,
                                     Robert B. Nicholson, Matthew
                                     A. Waring, Attorneys, on the
                                     brief, U.S. Department of
                                     Justice, Washington, D.C., for
                                     Respondent United States of
                                     America.




NATHAN, Circuit Judge:

      In the wake of news reporting about Verizon Communications
Inc.’s (Verizon) mishandling of its customers’ location data, the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC or the Commission)
commenced an enforcement action against the company. Exercising
its authority to pursue monetary forfeitures, see 47 U.S.C.
§ 503(b)(1)(B), (b)(4), the Commission preliminarily concluded that
Verizon violated § 222 of the Communications Act and § 64.2010 of




                                3
the agency’s regulations. 1 After considering Verizon’s responses, the
FCC subsequently affirmed its findings, imposing a $46.9 million
penalty due to Verizon’s failure to reasonably safeguard a category of
statutorily protected information known as “customer proprietary
network information.”
        Before this Court, Verizon challenges the forfeiture order on
various grounds. Verizon first argues that the customer location data
it was found to have mishandled is not statutorily protected because
it does not satisfy the definition of customer proprietary network
information. See id. § 222(h)(1)(A). It also contests the liability finding
as arbitrary and capricious and the forfeiture amount as violative of
the statutory penalty cap. See id. § 503(b)(2)(B). Finally, Verizon
contends that the FCC’s forfeiture proceedings deprived the company
of a jury trial in an Article III forum and so infringed its Seventh
Amendment rights.
        We disagree. The customer data at issue plainly qualifies as
customer       proprietary        network        information,        triggering      the
Communication Act’s privacy protections. And the forfeiture order
both soundly imposed liability and remained within the strictures of
the penalty cap.         Nothing about the Commission’s proceedings,
moreover, transgressed the Seventh Amendment’s jury trial


1 The FCC’s findings in the Notice of Apparent Liability are preliminary. See Verizon
Commc’ns, 35 FCC Rcd. 1698, 1699 (2020) (“In this Notice of Apparent Liability, we propose
a penalty of $48,318,750 against Verizon . . . for apparently violating section 222 of the
Communications Act and the Commission’s regulations[.]” (emphasis added)). In the
forfeiture order that the FCC later issued, it confirmed the bulk of the agency’s prior
findings, concluding, after Verizon was given an opportunity to respond, that it “f[ound]
no reason to cancel or withdraw the proposed penalty.” In re Verizon Commc’ns, No. 24-41,
2024 WL 1905229, at *1 (F.C.C. Apr. 29, 2024).




                                            4
guarantee. Indeed, Verizon had, and chose to forgo, the opportunity
for a jury trial in federal court. Thus, we DENY Verizon’s petition.

                             BACKGROUND

     I.      Legal Background
           The Communications Act of 1934, 47 U.S.C. §§ 151 et seq.,
empowers the FCC “to regulate all interstate and foreign
communication by wire or radio and all persons engaged within the
United States in such communication.” N.Y. State Telecomms. Ass’n,
Inc. v. James, 101 F.4th 135, 140 (2d Cir. 2024) (quotation marks
omitted).
           When Congress amended the Communications Act in 1996, it
created a new framework to govern the protection and use of the
information that telecommunications carriers obtain by virtue of
providing such a service. Telecommunications Act of 1996, Pub. L.
No. 104-104, § 222, 110 Stat. 56, 148–49.          Under that framework,
enshrined in § 222, carriers have “a duty to protect the confidentiality
of        proprietary   information    of,   and     relating   to,   other
telecommunication         carriers,   equipment      manufacturers,    and
customers[.]” 47 U.S.C. § 222(a) (emphasis added).
           One such form of protected customer data is customer
proprietary network information. This category of information is
defined as “information that relates to the quantity, technical
configuration, type, destination, location, and amount of use of a
telecommunications service subscribed to by any customer of a
telecommunications carrier, and that is made available to the carrier
by the customer solely by virtue of the carrier-customer relationship.”
Id. § 222(h)(1)(A). By statute, a carrier “shall only use, disclose, or



                                      5
permit access to individually identifiable customer proprietary
network information” to provide “the telecommunications service
from which such information is derived” or “services necessary to, or
used in” providing that service “[e]xcept as required by law or with
the approval of the customer.” Id. § 222(c)(1) (emphasis added).
        The FCC has issued regulations implementing § 222’s
requirements. Carriers must “take reasonable measures to discover
and protect against attempts to gain unauthorized access to [customer
proprietary network information].” 47 C.F.R. § 64.2010(a). Carriers
must also generally obtain the “opt-in approval” of their customers
before disclosing such information. Id. § 64.2007(b). 2
        Congress authorized the FCC to enforce § 222 and the agency’s
rules through monetary forfeitures.                   See 47 U.S.C. § 503(b)(1)(B).
Section 503(b) of the Communications Act provides two routes by
which the Commission may pursue such a forfeiture. See AT&T Corp.
v. Fed. Commc’ns Comm’n, 323 F.3d 1081, 1083 (D.C. Cir. 2003). Under
§ 503(b)(3), the FCC may initiate a formal adjudication before an
administrative law judge (ALJ) or the Commission itself. 47 U.S.C.
§ 503(b)(3)(A). Any resulting forfeiture order is reviewable in a court
of appeals. Id.        “If the penalty remains unpaid once the forfeiture
determination becomes final, the United States may bring a collection
action in district court.” AT&T Corp., 323 F.3d at 1083 (citing 47 U.S.C.
§ 503(b)(3)(B)).



2Opt-in approval “requires that the carrier obtain from the customer affirmative, express
consent allowing the requested [customer proprietary network information] usage,
disclosure, or access after the customer is provided appropriate notification of the carrier’s
request.” 47 C.F.R. § 64.2003(k).




                                              6
          Alternatively, under § 503(b)(4), the FCC may, as it did here,
follow a more informal procedure.                       Under that procedure, the
Commission issues a Notice of Apparent Liability and gives the
alleged violator an opportunity to respond in writing. 47 U.S.C.
§ 503(b)(4)(A)–(C). After considering the response, the FCC decides
whether to affirm the notice, and if so, issues a forfeiture order. See
47 C.F.R. § 1.80(g)(4). At that point, the carrier has two options for
judicial review, depending on whether it opts to timely pay the
penalty. If the carrier declines to pay the ordered forfeiture amount,
the Commission may refer the matter to the Department of Justice to
commence a collection action in federal district court, where the
carrier is entitled to a “trial de novo.” 47 U.S.C. § 504(a). We refer to
this proceeding as a § 504(a) trial. If, however, the carrier chooses to
pay the forfeiture amount, it may seek review in the appropriate court
of appeals pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 402(a) and 28 U.S.C. § 2342(1). See
AT&T Corp., 323 F.3d at 1084–85; ABC, Inc. v. Fed. Commc’ns Comm’n,
404 F. App’x 530, 534 (2d Cir. 2011), vacated and remanded on other
grounds sub nom., Fed. Commc’ns Comm’n v. Fox Television Stations, Inc.,
567 U.S. 239 (2012). 3
    II.      Factual Background
          Petitioner Verizon provides its customers with mobile-voice
and data services through its wireless network. To enable a customer


3 This is the first time in a published opinion that we have stated that, as long as the carrier
pays the forfeiture amount, courts of appeals have jurisdiction to review a forfeiture order
issued pursuant to § 503(b)(4). The parties do not dispute that Verizon’s payment of the
forfeiture amount preserves our jurisdiction to review the FCC’s forfeiture order. In any
event, we find that, for the reasons articulated by the D.C. Circuit in AT&T Corp., 323 F.3d
at 1084–85, we have jurisdiction to review Verizon’s appeal.




                                               7
to make and receive calls and to transmit data, customers’ devices and
a carrier’s cell towers must regularly exchange information, which we
refer to as “pinging” each other. Because carriers know the locations
of their towers, and because customers typically carry their phones
on their person or nearby, carriers like Verizon generally know their
customers’ location at all times.
        Until March 2019, Verizon, like many other carriers, ran a
“location-based services” program that sold access to certain kinds of
wireless customer location data. As part of that program, Verizon
contracted with “location information aggregators,” which collected
customer data and resold it to third-party location-based services
providers.       Verizon had arrangements with two aggregators,
LocationSmart and Zumigo, which in turn contracted with 63 third-
party entities. 4 These entities purportedly used customer location
data for six specific types of purposes or “[u]se [c]ases”: “call routing,
roadside assistance, proximity marketing, transportation and
logistics,    fraud     mitigation/identity         management,          and     mobile
gaming/lottery.” In re Verizon Commc’ns, No. 24-41, 2024 WL 1905229,
at *4 (F.C.C. Apr. 29, 2024) (quotation marks omitted).
        Verizon did not itself provide notice and obtain or verify
consent to access customer location data. Rather, it largely delegated
those functions via contract. Verizon’s contracts with the aggregators,
for example, required that location-based services providers give
notice and seek affirmative, opt-in consent before accessing customer


4Early on, the forfeiture order suggests that 65 third-party entities joined the location-
based services program. But Verizon clarified that two of these companies did not actually
participate despite being approved to do so.




                                            8
information. And prior to joining the program, providers had to
submit an application describing the company’s intended use case
and its notice-and-consent process. To verify that customers were
indeed consenting to disclosure of their data, Verizon relied primarily
on an external auditor, Aegis Mobile, LLC, which collected and
matched customer location requests and consent events on a daily
basis. 5   Both sets of records were submitted to Aegis by the
aggregators, who in turn collected them from the third-party
providers. If a contracting party failed to meet Verizon’s standards,
Verizon could cut off access to customer location data at any time.
       On May 10, 2018, the New York Times published an article
reporting security breaches involving Verizon’s (and other major
carriers’) location-based services program. According to the New York
Times, a company called Securus Technologies, Inc. (Securus) was
misusing the program to enable law enforcement officers to access
location data without customers’ knowledge or consent, so long as the
officers uploaded a warrant or some other legal authorization. But,
as Verizon concedes, Securus had been approved for a different use
case altogether. And because Securus did not actually review the
documents that law enforcement personnel uploaded, a now-former
Missouri sheriff, Cory Hutcheson, was able to access customer data
with no legal process at all. Instead of providing warrants or other
legal authorization, Hutcheson uploaded utterly irrelevant materials,
such as “his health insurance policy, his auto insurance policy, and
pages selected from Sheriff training materials.” Verizon Commc’ns,

5 Verizon’s monitoring efforts purportedly had additional components as well, such as
regular audits.




                                         9
2024 WL 1905229, at *5 (quotation marks omitted).
      The day after the New York Times article, Verizon terminated
access to customer location data for both Securus and 3Cinteractive,
the intermediary that had supplied Securus with the data by way of a
contract with aggregator LocationSmart.        Verizon also stopped
approving any new participants or use cases. A month later, Verizon
announced its intention to terminate the location-based services
program altogether. But it did not stop selling customer location data
to most (57) of its providers and the aggregator Zumigo until some
six months later. And LocationSmart, together with four roadside-
assistance providers, retained access to customer location data into
2019. In the meantime, the program continued to operate more or less
as it always had.
      Soon after the New York Times article, the FCC’s Enforcement
Bureau launched an investigation into Verizon’s location-based
services program. And in February 2020, the Commission issued
Verizon a Notice of Apparent Liability for its apparent violations of
§ 222 of the Communications Act and § 64.2010 of the agency’s
regulations by failing to protect its customers’ proprietary network
information. After considering Verizon’s responses, the Commission
affirmed the notice and issued a forfeiture order.
      In that order, the FCC concluded that the location data
disclosed through Verizon’s location-based services program is
protected as customer proprietary network information under § 222.
And it found that Verizon failed to reasonably protect that
information both before and after the Securus/Hutcheson disclosures.
Basing its penalty on Verizon’s post-disclosure conduct, the




                                  10
Commission determined that Verizon engaged in 63 continuing
violations of § 222 and its implementing regulations: one for each
ongoing      relationship      with    an      aggregator     or   location-based
services provider that retained access to customer data more than 30
days after publication of the New York Times article. 6 It also applied a
50% upward adjustment on top of the base forfeiture amount for,
among other things, “egregious” conduct, and it rejected Verizon’s
constitutional challenges to the forfeiture order. In the end, Verizon
was directed to pay $46.9 million within 30 days of the order.
       Verizon paid the penalty and filed a timely petition for review
in this Court pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 402(a) and 28 U.S.C. § 2342(1).

                          STANDARD OF REVIEW
       Under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), we will
generally overturn agency action only if it is “arbitrary, capricious, an
abuse of discretion,” or otherwise contrary to law. 5 U.S.C. § 706(2).
       We review constitutional questions and matters of statutory
interpretation de novo. See Cablevision Sys. Corp. v. Fed. Commc’ns
Comm’n, 570 F.3d 83, 91 (2d Cir. 2009); Loper Bright Enters. v. Raimondo,
603 U.S. 369, 394 (2024). “An agency’s factual findings must be
supported by substantial evidence, which means such relevant
evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a
conclusion.” Cablevision Sys. Corp., 570 F.3d at 91 (quotation marks
omitted).


6 The FCC’s original calculation of the forfeiture included two companies which, as
explained above, see supra p. 8 n.4, never participated in the location-based services
program. But upon Verizon’s clarification, the FCC exercised its discretion to exclude
these two entities and reduce the forfeiture amount accordingly.




                                          11
                                DISCUSSION
        Verizon raises a number of challenges to the FCC’s forfeiture
order in its petition for review. On the statutory side of things,
Verizon argues that § 222 does not cover the customer location data
at issue in this case, that the FCC’s liability finding was arbitrary and
capricious, and that the penalty exceeds the statutory cap. Verizon
also brings a constitutional challenge, asserting that the imposition of
the forfeiture, without a jury trial, violates its Seventh Amendment
rights. On all of these challenges, the FCC has the better of the
arguments.
   I.     Scope of § 222
        Verizon’s first challenge to the forfeiture order concerns the
scope of § 222 of the Communications Act. On Verizon’s theory,
customer proprietary network information essentially covers only
customers’ call-location data, not their device-location data. And since
its location-based services program sold only device-location
information, Verizon argues that § 222 does not apply. We are not
persuaded.
        Section 222(h)(1)(A) defines customer proprietary network
information as including “information that relates to the quantity,
technical configuration, type, destination, location, and amount of use
of a telecommunications service subscribed to by any customer of a
telecommunications carrier, and that is made available to the carrier by
the customer solely by virtue of the carrier-customer relationship.” 47
U.S.C. § 222(h)(1)(A) (emphasis added). Thus, to qualify as customer
proprietary network information, customer location data must meet
two     conditions.    First,    the   information   must   “relate[]   to




                                       12
the . . . location . . . of a telecommunications service.”                      Id. 7        And
second,      the    information         must       be   “made        available          to   the
carrier . . . solely by virtue of the carrier-customer relationship.” Id.
Device-location data comfortably satisfies both conditions.
        Starting with the first prong of the analysis, both parties agree
that Verizon’s wireless-voice services are telecommunications
services within the meaning of the statute. See 47 U.S.C. § 153(53).
Verizon contends, however, that the location information does not
reveal the location of telecommunications services, because “Verizon
did not need to wait for a customer to be on a call” to obtain that
information. Pet. Br. at 33. Rather, Verizon could ping a device

7 One of Verizon’s amici, CTIA – The Wireless Association (CTIA), but not Verizon, argues
that the statute is best read to define customer proprietary network information as that
which “relates to the . . . location . . . of use of a telecommunications service.” 47 U.S.C.
§ 222(h)(1)(A) (emphasis added). Pursuant to the rule of the last antecedent, however, “a
limiting . . . phrase . . . should ordinarily be read as modifying only the noun or phrase that
it immediately follows.” Lockhart v. United States, 577 U.S. 347, 351 (2016) (quotation marks
omitted). Although the rule is not absolute and can be overcome by context, id., the context
here supports rather than undermines the application of the rule. Reading the phrase “of
use” as modifying each category of enumerated information, as opposed to just the word
“amount,” would create unnecessary anomalies. For example, it would make little sense
to read § 222(h)(1)(A) to refer to the “technical configuration . . . of use of a
telecommunications service.” 47 U.S.C. § 222(h)(1)(A). Moreover, if we were to adopt
CTIA’s preferred construction, there would be no principled distinction between the
statute’s references to “quantity of use” and “amount of use,” rendering one of those
phrases surplusage. See Quantity, BLACK’S LAW DICTIONARY (12th ed. 2024) (defining
“quantity” as “[t]he amount of something measurable”). By contrast, if “of use” only
modifies “amount,” we can more readily interpret “quantity . . . of a telecommunications
service” as referring to, for example, how many phone lines a customer has purchased,
and “amount of use” of such a service as referring to, for example, the number and length
of that customer’s calls. Since “we construe statutes to avoid surplusage,” Perez v.
Westchester Cnty. Dep’t of Corr., 587 F.3d 143, 155 (2d Cir. 2009), the better reading of
§ 222(h)(1)(A) is that, to qualify as customer proprietary network information, the
information must “relate[] to the . . . location . . . of a telecommunications service,” not to
the “location . . . of use” of such a service. 47 U.S.C. § 222(h)(1)(A).




                                              13
owned by a customer who was not using or did not purchase any
voice service (e.g., a customer who had a data-only plan, which is not
a telecommunications service under the statute, see infra p. 15 & n.9).
For this reason, Verizon claims, the location-based services program
“relates     to”     “only      the    location      of    a    device,      not     of    a
telecommunications service.” Id.
        Verizon is mistaken. As explained above, a wireless carrier
“must be aware of and use [a] device’s location in order for it to enable
customers to send and receive calls.” Verizon Commc’ns, 2024 WL
1905229, at *8 (quotation marks omitted). Thus, customers’ devices
and Verizon’s cell towers regularly communicate to “ensur[e] that
[customers] can receive incoming calls and place outgoing calls.” Id.
at *9. That is true whether a customer is on a call or not, since the device
must continuously maintain a connection to the carrier’s network for
any incoming call to be received. Accordingly, the device-location
data of customers to whom Verizon is providing voice services clearly
relates to the location where they are receiving the voice service. And
so, it “relates to the . . . location . . . of a telecommunications service.”
47 U.S.C. § 222(h)(1)(A). 8
        Verizon suggests that this argument “ignores the record,”
because to generate the location information that Verizon sold
through its location-based services program, the company had to

8 We would reach the same conclusion even if we construed “of use” to modify all terms
in the statutory definition of customer proprietary network information, see supra p. 12 n.7,
since, as the Commission reasoned, “[w]hen customers’ devices are exchanging
communications with Verizon’s network, and thereby ensuring that they can receive
incoming calls and place outgoing calls,” they are clearly “using the [telecommunications]
service to which they have subscribed, even outside the moments in time when they are
engaged in calls.” Verizon Commc’ns, 2024 WL 1905229, at *9.




                                             14
“specially ping” a customer’s wireless device, “separately from the
normal course network communications” with that device. Reply Br.
at 14 (quotation marks omitted).                 But nothing about this special
pinging takes the device-location information at issue here outside
the purview of the statute. Verizon’s program collected the same
data, using the same technological infrastructure, as that used to
approximate the location of a customer’s device to enable voice
services,      rendering        it   “related       to”     the     location      of     a
telecommunications service. See Mizrahi v. Gonzales, 492 F.3d 156, 159
(2d Cir. 2007) (“Congress’s use of the phrase ‘relating to’ in federal
legislation generally signals its expansive intent.”). 9 Plus, it would be
perverse to grant greater statutory privacy protection to device-
location data collected only for use by Verizon than to the same data
collected for disclosure to third parties. And it is well-settled that
“[c]ourts should interpret statutes to avoid absurd results.” In re Nine
W. LBO Sec. Litig., 87 F.4th 130, 145 (2d Cir. 2023).
        Verizon also draws on statutory context and legislative history
to support its theory that § 222(h)(1)(A) embraces only call-location
information. But its arguments are inconclusive at best and, in any
event, cannot override the statute’s plain meaning.
        By way of background, when Congress enacted the
Telecommunications Act in 1996, “location” was not included in the
definition of customer proprietary network information. That was

9For the same reason, and for reasons explained more fully below, see infra pp. 18–20, we
reject the argument, to the extent that Verizon makes it, that for data-only customers, the
device-location at issue in this case is not “related to” a telecommunications service
because the provision of data services is not a telecommunications service under the
statute.




                                            15
added in 1999, along with other amendments to § 222, via the
Wireless Communications and Public Safety Act, Pub. L. No. 106–81,
§ 5(3), 113 Stat. 1286, 1289 (1999). As part of those amendments,
Congress crafted a new exception to § 222(c)(1)’s prohibition on the
nonconsensual use, disclosure, or access to customer proprietary
network information. This exception allows carriers to disclose “call
location information,” without customer consent, to various
emergency services providers and to family members in an
emergency involving a risk of death or serious physical harm. 47
U.S.C. § 222(d)(4). Congress also clarified that, in the context of “call
location information,” consent for purposes of § 222(c)(1) means
“express prior authorization.” Id. § 222(f)(1).
      Citing to the 1999 amendments and their legislative history,
Verizon argues that these provisions show that Congress intended
“location” in the definition of customer propriety network
information to capture “call location information.” Pet. Br. at 34
(quotation marks omitted). And it maintains that embracing the
contrary interpretation would lead to nonsensical results, since it
would mean that (1) Verizon may, without consent, disclose call-
location information to emergency service providers or immediate
family in a life-threatening emergency, but not device-location
information, and (2) only “express prior authorization” counts as
consent for call-location information, but lesser forms of consent (e.g.,
a failure to opt out) could suffice for disclosing device-location
information.
      Even assuming that those results reflect contrary assumptions
about the sensitivity of device-location data, Verizon’s arguments




                                   16
about congressional intent just as easily cut in the other direction.
“Where Congress includes particular language in one section of a
statute but omits it in another section of the same Act, it is generally
presumed that Congress acts intentionally and purposely in the
disparate inclusion or exclusion,” Russello v. United States, 464 U.S. 16,
23 (1983) (cleaned up), and the “negative implications raised by
disparate provisions are strongest” when those provisions “were
being considered simultaneously,” Lindh v. Murphy, 521 U.S. 320, 330
(1997). Had Congress wished to limit § 222’s scope to call-location
information, it could have used a term like “call location” in
§ 222(h)(1)(A)—just as it did in the other amended provisions—
instead of affording protection more broadly to all “information that
relates to the . . . location” of a service. 47 U.S.C. § 222(h)(1)(A). In
any event, “[i]t is axiomatic that the plain meaning of a statute
controls its interpretation.” Lee v. Bankers Tr. Co., 166 F.3d 540, 544
(1999).      And since device-location data plainly “relates to
the . . . location . . . of   a   telecommunications      service,”     as
§ 222(h)(1)(A) requires, that alone is enough to defeat Verizon’s
remaining arguments about congressional intent.                47 U.S.C.
§ 222(h)(1)(A).
        As for the second prong of the § 222(h)(1)(A) analysis, Verizon
contends that device-location data is not customer proprietary
network information because it is not obtained “solely by virtue of the
carrier-customer relationship.”       47 U.S.C. § 222(h)(1)(A).       This
argument is a close cousin of its first, since its effect would be to limit
the definition of customer proprietary network information to data
concerning voice plans. But once again, Verizon misses the mark.




                                     17
        The Communications Act subjects communications services “to
different regulatory regimes depending on how they are classified.”
N.Y. State Telecomms. Ass’n, 101 F.4th at 140.                     Entities providing
“telecommunications services” are regulated as common carriers
under Title II of the Act.                 47 U.S.C. § 153(51).            By contrast,
“information services” are exempt from common-carrier status. See
Nat’l Cable & Telecomms. Ass’n v. Brand X Internet Servs., 545 U.S. 967,
975 (2005) (“The Act regulates telecommunications carriers, but not
information-service providers, as common carriers.”).                         A parallel
framework applies to mobile service providers: while entities that
provide “commercial mobile services” are treated as common
carriers, 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(1)(A), those that offer “private mobile
services” are not, id. § 332(c)(2). See also, e.g., Petitions for Declaratory
Ruling on Regul. Status of Wireless Messaging Serv., 33 FCC Rcd. 12075,
12076–77 (2018) (discussing these parallel frameworks).
        Against this backdrop, the crux of Verizon’s argument is that
the location data at issue here is not made available “solely by virtue
of the carrier-customer relationship” because Verizon can obtain it
even if a customer is not using or has not purchased the sole common-
carrier service that Verizon provides: its mobile-voice services. 47
U.S.C. § 222(h)(1)(A); see also id. §§ 153(51), 332(c)(1)(A). Indeed, as
we have already explained, that data can be obtained from customers
using Verizon’s data services, which are classified as non-common-
carrier services. 10

10Verizon’s wireless data services—text messaging and Internet access—are presently
regulated as non-common-carrier information services and private mobile services. See
Petitions for Declaratory Ruling on Regul. Status of Wireless Messaging Serv., 33 FCC Rcd. at
12082, 12090–94 (text messaging); Restoring Internet Freedom, 33 FCC Rcd. 311, 312, 322–34




                                             18
        This argument fails. Verizon provides wireless-voice services
to its customers because they have chosen Verizon to be their
provider of that voice service—in other words, they have a carrier-
customer relationship. Verizon’s voice customers, in turn, provide
their device-location data to Verizon solely to use the services they
purchase from it.            Indeed, Verizon’s voice services require this
information to operate. As such, the carrier-customer relationship is
the “sole[]” reason that Verizon’s voice customers provide location
data to Verizon. 47 U.S.C. § 222(h)(1)(A).
        The core problem with Verizon’s argument is that it assumes
that the scope of the “carrier-customer relationship” in § 222(h)(1)(A)
is limited to its common-carrier services. Not so. At the outset, the
“solely by virtue of” language does not ask whether the carrier
obtained the customer proprietary network information solely
through its telecommunications service (or its commercial mobile
service). Instead, by its terms, it asks whether the carrier obtained the
information through “the carrier-customer relationship.”                                 Id.
(emphasis added).             That relationship may encompass multiple
services, such as information services. Indeed, where carriers sell
voice and data services as part of a bundle, all those services are fairly
encompassed within the carrier-customer relationship.
        To be sure, the Communications Act treats regulated parties as


(2018) (broadband Internet access). Although the FCC sought to reclassify broadband
Internet access in 2024, see Safeguarding & Securing the Open Internet Restoring Internet
Freedom, No. 24-52, 2024 WL 2109860, at *3–4 (F.C.C. May 7, 2024), the Sixth Circuit set
aside the order earlier this year, see In re MCP No. 185, 124 F.4th 993, 1001, 1013 (6th Cir.
2025). See also N.Y. State Telecomms. Ass’n, 101 F.4th at 140–41 (discussing the prior
reclassifications of broadband Internet access and its regulatory consequences).




                                             19
common carriers only to the extent that they provide common-carrier
services. See id. § 153(51) (stipulating that a party “shall be treated as
a common carrier . . . only to the extent that it is engaged in providing
telecommunications services”); id. § 332(c)(1)(A) (same “insofar as
such person is . . . engaged” in providing a commercial mobile
service); see also Fed. Trade Comm’n v. AT&T Mobility LLC, 883 F.3d 848,
860 (9th Cir. 2018) (“[A] company may be an interstate common
carrier in some instances but not in others, depending on the nature
of the activity which is subject to scrutiny.” (quotation marks
omitted)). But nothing in those provisions constrains the scope of the
“carrier-customer          relationship”        in        § 222(h)(1)(A).
Section 222(h)(1)(A) uses the terms “carrier” and “customer” to
identify the relevant parties via their relationship to one another, not
to cabin that relationship to common-carrier services.
         In sum, we conclude that device-location data both “relates to
the . . . location . . . of a telecommunications service” and is obtained
“solely by virtue of the carrier-customer relationship.” 47 U.S.C.
§ 222(h)(1)(A). It thus qualifies as customer proprietary network
information and triggers the privacy protections set forth in § 222 of
the Communications Act.
   II.     Liability Finding
         In the alternative,    Verizon    contends    that   the   FCC’s
determination that Verizon did not reasonably protect customers’
location data was arbitrary and capricious. “However, an agency’s
decision is arbitrary and capricious only if the agency has relied on
factors which Congress has not intended it to consider, entirely failed
to consider an important aspect of the problem, offered an




                                    20
explanation for its decision that runs counter to the evidence before
the agency, or is so implausible that it could not be ascribed to a
difference in view or the product of agency expertise.” Safe Haven
Home Care, Inc. v. U.S. Dep’t of Health & Hum. Servs., 130 F.4th 305, 323
(2d Cir. 2025) (cleaned up). That was not the case here.
        Section 503(b) provides that a person shall be liable for
forfeiture for “willfully or repeatedly fail[ing] to comply with any of
the provisions of” the Communications Act or rules promulgated by
the FCC. 47 U.S.C. § 503(b)(1)(B). 11 In the forfeiture order, the FCC
determined that Verizon failed to reasonably protect customer
proprietary        network        information         before      and      after     the
Securus/Hutcheson disclosures, thereby violating § 222 and § 64.2010
of the agency’s rules.
        Verizon’s challenge to this determination stems from its view
that the Securus/Hutcheson disclosures were outlier occurrences that
affected a small number of customers and do not speak to any broader
systemic issues in its safeguards. Thus, Verizon argues, instead of
reasonable measures, the FCC required perfect ones, imposing,
without fair notice, a strict liability standard “contrary to the
reasonableness standard” in the FCC rule. Pet. Br. at 40 (quotation
marks omitted). At bottom, Verizon asks us to find that it was
arbitrary and capricious for the FCC to refuse to infer the
reasonableness of Verizon’s safeguards based on the fact that only the
Securus/Hutcheson breaches were publicly identified.                           But the

11For obligations under the Communications Act, “‘willful’, when used with reference to
the commission or omission of any act, means the conscious and deliberate commission or
omission of such act, irrespective of any intent to violate any provision” or FCC rule. 47
U.S.C. § 312(f)(l).




                                            21
Commission “reasonably considered the relevant issues and
reasonably explained the decision” to reject that position.       Fed.
Commc’ns Comm’n v. Prometheus Radio Project, 592 U.S. 414, 423 (2021).
      As to the period before the Securus/Hutcheson disclosures, the
FCC considered the safeguards that Verizon had in place and
reasonably found them wanting. In reaching this decision, the agency
explained that Verizon relied heavily on a chain of contractual
arrangements to satisfy its statutory and regulatory obligations. And
it observed that, to enforce its contractual safeguards, Verizon’s
efforts “apparently mainly consisted of analysis of unverified vendor-
created consent records” (through Aegis). Verizon Commc’ns, 2024 WL
1905229, at *16 (quotation marks omitted).       Specifically, Aegis’s
review consisted essentially of comparing the list of “location
requests” provided by a location-based services provider with the list
of purported “consent records” also provided by the provider, a system
that “assumed that the location requests and consent records
provided by the [providers] would be legitimate in the first instance”
and could not detect if a provider fabricated the consent records.
Verizon Commc’ns, 35 FCC Rcd. 1698, 1719 (2020). A 2017 internal
report, which warned Verizon that “it is possible for [providers] with
delegated consent to falsify consent records and obtain [Verizon]
subscriber data without their consent,” shows that the company was
on notice of this possibility. Verizon Commc’ns, 2024 WL 1905229, at
*4 (quotation marks omitted) (second alteration in original).
      The FCC also emphasized that although allegedly designed to
monitor customer consents, Verizon’s system was incapable of
detecting customers’ lack of consent, since the Securus location




                                  22
requests expressly sought to obtain customer location data without
customers’ approval. This was, in the agency’s view, a “significant
loophole.” Id. at *17. Verizon complains that its failure to identify
the 11 customers whose data was improperly accessed by Hutcheson
“hardly shows” the existence of any “significant loophole” in its
procedures. Pet. Br. at 5. 12 But even if the unauthorized disclosures
themselves were not so numerous, it was appropriate for the FCC to
consider, in assessing the reasonableness of Verizon’s safeguards, that
the Securus/Hutcheson requests did not raise any red flags despite the
fact that they were submitting the opposite of consent records to a
system whose central conceit was obtaining customer consent.
        The FCC examined the relevant factors and spelled out a
reasonable basis to support its conclusion: it considered the full
gamut of Verizon’s safeguards and found that Verizon lacked a
reliable means to enforce compliance with its contractual safeguards.
That is sufficient on review for arbitrary and capriciousness. See
Prometheus Radio Project, 592 U.S. at 423 (noting that “a court may not
substitute its own policy judgment for that of the agency” on arbitrary
and capricious review).
        Second, and more importantly, as to Verizon’s response to the
Securus/Hutcheson breaches, Verizon again reiterates the measures it


12The FCC’s briefing relies on numbers that seem to refer to disclosures across carriers. The
Notice of Apparent Liability indicated that “at least 20 Verizon customers’ location
information was disclosed to Hutcheson, via Securus, without the customers’ consent.”
Verizon Commc’ns, 35 FCC Rcd. at 1714. In response, Verizon argued that the evidence on
which the FCC relied did not support that contention. The forfeiture order does not appear
to reiterate the original number. But, consistent with Verizon’s position, the record
suggests that, although Hutcheson/Securus may have made some 20 requests, the data of
only 11 Verizon customers was improperly accessed.




                                             23
took in the wake of the New York Times article.            But the FCC
reasonably found those measures to be insufficient as well. As the
Commission observed, the breaches put Verizon on notice that the
third parties’ contractual promise to limit the use of location data
alone failed to prevent its unauthorized use.         And yet, Verizon
continued to sell its customers’ location data under effectively “the
same system” to 58 entities for over six months and to another five for
over 10 months. Verizon Commc’ns, 2024 WL 1905229, at *18.
      The FCC acknowledged that Verizon immediately cut off
3Cinteractive and Securus, declined to allow access to location
information for additional providers and use cases, and had Aegis
review the vetting procedures and data analytics used. That said, the
FCC observed that Verizon implemented only certain changes,
requiring Aegis to “strengthen the transaction verification process to
identify any anomalies in the data relating to consent requests that
could indicate a potential issue, such as multiple location requests
within a 24-hour period or an increase in location requests that were
out of the ordinary” for a particular location-based services provider.
Id. at *19 (quotation marks omitted). And it explained that nothing in
the record indicated that “those particular measures were likely to
have identified the problem that enabled the Securus and Hutcheson
breaches in the first place,” including the failure to verify the validity
of customer consent. Id.
      The Commission identified “numerous steps that could have
been taken to squarely address the proven vulnerability,” including
steps short of terminating the program. Id. These steps included
immediately suspending the access of LocationSmart, which was




                                    24
contractually obligated to monitor Securus and 3Cinteractive’s access
to Verizon customer data; meaningfully investigating whether the
Securus incident was an isolated occurrence or indicative of a broader
problem; 13 directly verifying customer consent; and, if Verizon
determined it could not reasonably safeguard the customer location
data that it sold access to, terminating the program. Thus, once again,
the agency “considered the evidence, examined the relevant factors,
and spelled out a satisfactory rationale for its action.” Env’t Def. v.
U.S. Env’t Prot. Agency, 369 F.3d 193, 201 (2d Cir. 2004).
        Verizon’s remaining arguments are unavailing. The FCC’s
decision to provide a 30-day “grace period,” during which Verizon
could have fixed the problems it identified or terminated the program
without facing penalties, in no way belies its assertions regarding the
seriousness of the flaws in Verizon’s program. And the FCC order
neither suggests that the only reasonable response would have been
for Verizon to terminate the program within 30 days of learning of the
New York Times article, nor otherwise imposes an “effective strict
liability regime.” Pet. Br. at 40. So Verizon cannot complain of lack
of fair notice on either front.
        Accordingly, we find that the FCC’s liability finding was not
arbitrary and capricious.
     III. Forfeiture Amount
         Verizon next asserts that the forfeiture order violates the
Communication Act’s statutory limit on forfeiture penalties. We

13 Verizon claims to have investigated the other service providers, and that neither it nor
its third-party auditor identified any other service provider that improperly accessed
customer location information. But it “fail[ed] to provide any details about the scope or
strength of that investigation.” Verizon Commc’ns, 35 FCC Rcd. at 1722.




                                            25
disagree.
      In authorizing the FCC to assess forfeitures, Congress set
maximum       forfeiture   amounts.        As    applicable     here,   the
Communications Act caps the total per-violation forfeiture amount at
approximately $200,000 for “each violation or each day of a
continuing violation, except that the amount assessed for any
continuing violation shall not exceed” approximately $2 million, as
adjusted for inflation, “for any single act or failure to act” that violates
the statute or FCC rules. 47 U.S.C. § 503(b)(2)(B); see also 47 C.F.R.
§ 1.80(b)(2), (b)(9)(ii) (2020); Amend. of Section 1.80(b) of the Comm’n’s
Rules Adjustment of Civ. Monetary Penalties to Reflect Inflation, 34 FCC
Rcd. 12824, 12828 (2019). Thus, for any given continuing violation,
the Act authorizes the FCC to impose a penalty of up to $200,000 for
each successive day, so long as the aggregate penalty for any “single
act or failure to act” does not exceed $2 million.            47 U.S.C. §
503(b)(2)(B); Amend. of Section 1.80(b) of the Comm’n’s Rules Adjustment
of Civ. Monetary Penalties to Reflect Inflation, 34 FCC Rcd. at 1828. In
determining the amount of the forfeiture penalty, the FCC must
consider “the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the
violation and, with respect to the violator, the degree of culpability,
any history of prior offenses, ability to pay, and such other matters as
justice may require.” 47 U.S.C. § 503(b)(2)(E).
      As previewed above, the FCC found that Verizon “engaged in
[63] continuing violations—one for each ongoing relationship with a
third-party . . . provider or aggregator that had access to Verizon
customer location information more than 30 days after publication of
the New York Times report—and that each violation continued until




                                     26
Verizon terminated the corresponding entity’s access to customer
location information.” Verizon Commc’ns, 2024 WL 1905229, at *22. In
challenging this result, Verizon and its amici contend that the FCC’s
findings support at most a “single act or failure to act” warranting a
forfeiture: that, in maintaining “one set” of flawed policies, it “failed
to take reasonable measures to discover and protect against attempts
to gain unauthorized access to its customers’ location information.”
Pet. Br. at 42 (quotation marks omitted) In its view, the maximum
forfeiture penalty the FCC could impose was about $2 million, not
nearly $47 million.
      At the outset, the parties disagree as to the applicable standard
of review. Verizon and its amici suggest that, after Loper Bright, we
must assess this matter de novo, because whether Verizon’s failure to
take reasonable protective measures constitutes a “single act or failure
to act” or many acts or failures to act is a question of statutory
interpretation. Pet. Br. at 42 (quoting 47 U.S.C. § 503(b)(2)(B)). The
FCC, on the other hand, maintains that arbitrary-and-capricious
review governs.
      Rather than defer to an agency’s interpretation of a statute,
“courts must exercise independent judgment in determining the
meaning of statutory provisions.” Loper Bright, 603 U.S. at 394. Of
course, “[i]n a case involving an agency . . . the statute’s meaning may
well be that the agency is authorized to exercise a degree of
discretion.” Id. “When the best reading of a statute is that it delegates
discretionary authority to an agency, the role of the reviewing court
under the APA is, as always, to independently interpret the statute
and effectuate the will of Congress subject to constitutional




                                   27
limits[,] . . . ensuring   the   agency   has    engaged   in   reasoned
decisionmaking within [the] boundaries [of the authority delegated
to it].” Id. at 395 (quotation marks omitted).
       Here, although Verizon and its amici are correct that
determining Verizon’s total number of violations involves a question
of statutory interpretation, they misidentify the relevant question.
The Communications Act does not specifically articulate what
qualifies as a “single act or failure to act.” Rather, the Act gives the
Commission “the discretion” to determine when to issue a forfeiture
penalty against a carrier. 47 U.S.C. § 503(b)(3)(A). And when the
Commission does issue a penalty, the Act gives the Commission the
discretion, within a statutory cap, to determine its amount.         Id.
§ 503(b)(2)(B), (E). It also empowers the Commission to determine
when someone has “willfully or repeatedly failed to comply with [the
Communications Act].” Id. § 503(b)(1)(B).          Those delegations of
authority make sense in the context of the FCC’s remedial scheme:
because the agency is close to the facts, it is best positioned to
determine what, under any given set of circumstances, qualifies as a
single violation. So the relevant statutory interpretation question is
whether, under the Communications Act, the FCC has the discretion
to determine, within reasonable “boundaries,” Loper Bright, 603 U.S.
at 395, when a carrier has engaged in a single violation of the Act.
Because the Communications Act explicitly grants the Commission
the discretion to determine what qualifies as a violation of the Act,
when to issue a forfeiture penalty for violations, and what the size of
that forfeiture penalty would be, we conclude, on de novo review, that
the agency has the authority to determine, within reasonable




                                     28
boundaries, what qualifies as a ”single act or failure to act,” for the
purpose of remaining within the statutory cap. 47 U.S.C.
§ 503(b)(2)(B). In short, we are not deferring to the agency’s
interpretation of the statute. Instead, we conclude—based on our
own independent analysis of the statute—that the Communications
Act vests the agency with some discretion to select, from a reasonable
range of possibilities, the unit of prosecution that can be considered a
single violation of the Act under particular circumstances.
      Still, that conclusion does not resolve whether the FCC’s
determination that Verizon committed 63 continuing violations is
unlawful.    As we have explained, when a statute “delegates
discretionary authority to an agency,” the role of the court, in addition
to interpreting the statute, is to ensure that “the agency has engaged
in reasoned decisionmaking” within the boundaries of the authority
Congress has delegated to it. Loper Bright, 603 U.S. at 395 (quotation
marks omitted).     We conclude that the FCC acted within those
boundaries when it determined that Verizon committed 63
continuing violations of the Communications Act.
      Verizon may have had one overarching set of flawed policies,
which insufficiently protected customer proprietary network
information, but those policies were implemented through separate
relationships with 63 different entities.      Verizon approved and
terminated each entity’s participation separately.       In the weeks
following the Securus/Hutcheson disclosures, it had the choice of
shoring up its demonstrably flawed safeguards or else cutting off
access not just for Securus and 3Cinteractive but also for any one of
the other entities that continued to receive customer location data




                                   29
without adequate safeguards. Its failure to take either of these paths
means that each of its ongoing relationships represented an
additional risk of security breaches.         That is enough to render
Verizon’s decision to continue selling location data to 63 entities
under     essentially   the   same        system   that   produced   the
Securus/Hutcheson disclosures 63 individual “act[s] or failure[s] to
act.”   47 U.S.C. § 503(b)(2)(B).    Thus, consistent with the FCC’s
conclusion, Verizon committed 63 continuing violations of § 222 of
the Communications Act and § 64.2010 of the FCC’s rules.
        Verizon and its amici complain that the FCC’s interpretation of
the statute leads to absurd results. But it’s Verizon’s approach that
makes little sense.     In the course of securing customers’ data, a
regulated party will make many decisions, which will in turn have
various ramifications on any number of sub-decisions and any
number of potential victims. As we have explained, Verizon made a
series of decisions that had various consequences.         For example:
Verizon relied on a chain of contractual arrangements to satisfy its
statutory and regulatory obligations, rather than satisfying those
obligations directly itself. It insufficiently validated customer consent
records and did not have a system in place that could detect a lack of
customer consent. And it took few additional measures after the
Securus/ Hutcheson breach to remedy the shortcomings in its data
protection systems. See supra pp. 21–25. Considering that set of
circumstances, we have little trouble concluding that the FCC acted
within the boundaries of the discretion that Congress delegated to it
when it concluded that Verizon committed 63 continuing violations.
        Moreover, the purpose of the FCC’s forfeiture penalties is to




                                     30
meaningfully deter and punish violations of the statute. Indeed, in
setting the forfeiture amount, the FCC must consider several factors
that “concern culpability, deterrence, and recidivism,” Sec. & Exch.
Comm’n v. Jarkesy, 603 U.S. 109, 123–24 (2024), such as the “gravity of
the violation,” “the degree of culpability,” and “any history of prior
offenses,” 47 U.S.C § 503(b)(2)(E). Forfeitures are also “payable into
the Treasury of the United States,” which further confirms their
deterrent and punitive, as opposed to remedial, function. Id. § 504(a).
Section 503’s legislative history supports this conclusion as well. See
Commission’s Forfeiture Pol’y Statement & Amend. of Section 1.80 of the
Rules to Incorporate the Forfeiture Guidelines (Forfeiture Pol’y Statement),
12 FCC Rcd. 17087, 17097 (1997). And yet, interpreting the statutory
cap to insulate systemic privacy failures from anything more than a
single capped penalty would do little to deter or punish
telecommunications giants like Verizon, even with the maximum,
approximately $2 million penalty. Given that Congress directed the
Commission to consider a violator’s “ability to pay” in calculating the
forfeiture amount, 47 U.S.C. § 503(b)(2)(E), we doubt that it intended
such a result. 14
        Verizon and its amici’s complaints of absurdity stem largely
from the FCC’s claim that the agency’s approach was not only lawful
but also “eminently conservative,” as it could have chosen to calculate
the number of violations based on "the total number of Verizon
subscribers”—“tens of millions”—“whose highly sensitive location

14While the FCC also claims that its interpretation is “[c]onsistent with established
practice” of treating “systemic privacy failings as ‘significantly more than a single
violation,’” it points to a single non-final decision in support of that position. Resp. Br. at
45 (citing In re TerraCom, Inc., 29 FCC Rcd. 13325, 13343 ¶ 50 (2014)).




                                              31
information was made vulnerable by Verizon.” Verizon Commc’ns,
2024 WL 1905229, at *26. But the legality of this methodology is not
before us. And, in any event, finding in favor of the FCC here does
not mean countenancing the imposition of a penalty in the hundreds
of trillions.
       To the extent amici also rely on United States v. WIYN Radio, Inc.,
614 F.2d 495 (5th Cir. 1980), that decision does not bind our Court.
But even if it did, the FCC’s interpretation does not run counter to its
holding. Indeed, that case focuses on the distinction between single
and continuing violations and does not address when or whether the
FCC might impose penalties for various continuing violations. See id.
at 497 (holding that a licensee’s failure to provide the required notice
of a personal attack on a broadcast was not a repeated violation for
which successive daily penalties could be exacted because the rule at
issue imposed a “single, pointed duty” that “admitt[ed] of only a
single dereliction” once the week-long period to give notice elapsed).
Thus, we find that the FCC acted within the limits of its authority
when it determined that Verizon engaged in 63 separate failures to
implement a reasonable data-security regime in violation of § 222 of
the Communications Act and § 64.2010 of the FCC’s rules.
       Finally, we conclude that Verizon forfeited on appeal any
challenge to the FCC’s upward adjustment of the forfeiture order
amount. Before the Commission, Verizon brought a second objection
to the size of the penalty imposed. It argued that the agency’s 50%
upward adjustment on top of the base forfeiture amount was
unwarranted. See Verizon Commc’ns, 2024 WL 1905229, at *23. But
“we rely on the parties to frame the issues for decision” on appeal.




                                    32
United States v. Sineneng-Smith, 590 U.S. 371, 375 (2020) (quoting
Greenlaw v. United States, 554 U.S. 237, 243 (2008)). And an appellant—
or petitioner—who fails to raise an argument in his opening brief
generally “forfeits” that argument. Tripathy v. McKoy, 103 F.4th 106,
118 (2d Cir. 2024).
      Verizon did not mention the upward adjustment in its opening
or reply briefs before this Court, and it did not raise any challenge to
the upward adjustment at oral argument. Even after we ordered
supplemental briefing about the upward adjustment, Verizon did not
explain why it had failed to raise the issue beforehand. It only tacitly
conceded that failure. See Pet. Supp. Br. at 1 (claiming the upward
adjustment furnishes “another reason” why the Commission’s
forfeiture order is “unlawful” (emphasis added)).          Verizon has
therefore forfeited any challenge to the upward adjustment here.
Although we may consider a forfeited issue if it is “purely legal” or if
“necessary to avoid a manifest injustice,” neither discretionary
exception counsels a different result. See Readco, Inc. v. Marine Midland
Bank, 81 F.3d 295, 302 (2d Cir. 1996).
      While we note that the D.C. Circuit considered and rejected
other carriers’ similar challenges to their large penalty amounts, see
Sprint Corp. v. Fed. Commc’ns Comm’n, No. 24-1224, 2025 WL 2371009,
at *15 (D.C. Cir. Aug. 15, 2025), those challenges were affirmatively
raised before that court, see Pet. Br. at 67–69, Sprint Corp., 2025 WL
2371009 (No. 24-1224), 2024 WL 5097079, at *67–69. We thus decline
to reach Verizon’s here.
   IV. Seventh Amendment
      Verizon and its amici lastly contend that the FCC’s decision to




                                   33
levy a forfeiture by way of its § 503(b)(4) enforcement procedures
violated Verizon’s Seventh Amendment rights. Even assuming for
the sake of argument that the Seventh Amendment applies in this
context, we determine that Verizon waived its right to a jury trial.
      The Seventh Amendment provides that, “[i]n Suits at common
law, where the value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the
right of trial by jury shall be preserved.” U.S. CONST. amend. VII.
Verizon and its amici’s arguments that the FCC violated this
constitutional mandate rest on the Supreme Court’s recent decision in
Securities & Exchange Commission v. Jarkesy. There, the Court held that
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) could not, consistent
with the Seventh Amendment, adjudicate securities fraud claims
seeking civil penalties “in-house” before an ALJ “rather than before a
jury in federal court.” See Jarkesy, 603 U.S. at 115. “The Seventh
Amendment,” the Court explained, “extends to a particular statutory
claim if the claim is ‘legal in nature,’” which requires examining the
cause of action and the remedy it provides. Id. at 122–23 (quoting
Granfinanciera, S.A. v. Nordberg, 492 U.S. 33, 53 (1989)). And, the Court
found, because the SEC’s action in Jarkesy was “legal in nature,” it
required a jury trial. Id. at 126.
      We may assume for the sake of argument that Verizon has a
Seventh Amendment right to trial by jury on the charges here.
Nevertheless, there is no Seventh Amendment problem here, because
Verizon could have gotten such a trial. The remedial structure of the
Communications Act differs significantly from the securities statutes
that the Supreme Court considered in Jarkesy. See 603 U.S. at 115–18
(explaining the remedial structure imposed by the three securities




                                     34
fraud statutes that were relevant to the disposition of the case). When
the   FCC     imposes    a   forfeiture   under    § 503(b)(4)   of   the
Communications Act, the statute directs that the penalty “shall be
recoverable pursuant to Section 504(a).” 47 U.S.C. § 503(b)(4). And
§ 504(a), in turn, requires the government to enforce any penalty in a
“trial de novo” in federal district court. Id. § 504(a). Thus, Verizon
could have declined to pay the forfeiture and preserved its
opportunity for a de novo jury trial if the government sought to collect.
Instead, it chose to pretermit any § 504(a) enforcement action and seek
immediate review in our Court. Cf. Westchester Day Sch. v. Vill. of
Mamaroneck, 504 F.3d 338, 356 (2d Cir. 2007) (discussing the waiver of
the jury-trial right).
       Verizon and its amici protest that the prospect of a § 504(a) trial
does not satisfy the Seventh Amendment’s demands because by the
time of trial, “the Commission would have already adjudged a carrier
guilty of violating section 222 and levied fines.” AT&T, Inc. v. Fed.
Commc’ns Comm’n, No. 24-60223, 2025 WL 2426855, at *9 (5th Cir.
Aug. 22, 2025). That argument is misplaced. Verizon essentially
complains that, whereas, after Jarkesy, the SEC must file a civil
complaint in federal district court to seek civil penalties for securities
fraud, the FCC will begin a § 504(a) trial not with allegations of
wrongdoing, but with a determination of liability. But the problem
in Jarkesy was that the SEC could “siphon” its securities fraud claims
away from Article III courts and compel payment without a jury trial.
603 U.S. at 135. The FCC’s forfeiture order, however, does not, by
itself, compel payment. The government needs to initiate a collection
action to do that. See 47 U.S.C. §§ 503(b)(4), 504(a). Against this




                                    35
backdrop, the agency’s proceedings before a § 504(a) trial create no
Seventh Amendment injury. Cf. Cap. Traction Co. v. Hof, 174 U.S. 1, 4,
45–46 (1899) (holding that an initial tribunal may lawfully enter
judgment without a full jury trial if the law permits a subsequent
“trial [anew] by jury, at the request of either party, in the appellate
court”).
        Verizon and its amici also assert that a § 504(a) trial falls short
of the Seventh Amendment’s guarantee because Verizon would have
needed to wait up to five years for the FCC to bring a collection action,
during which time Verizon would suffer reputational and practical
harms.      See 28 U.S.C. § 2462 (establishing a five-year statute of
limitations).      Verizon emphasizes, for example, that under FCC
policy, the agency may “us[e] the underlying facts of a prior violation
that shows a pattern of non-complaint behavior against a licensee in
a subsequent renewal, forfeiture, transfer, or other proceeding.”
Forfeiture Pol’y Statement, 12 FCC Rcd. at 17103. While we share
Verizon’s concerns regarding these “real-world impacts,” AT&T, 2025
WL 2426855, at *9, we fail to see how they implicate the Seventh
Amendment, which requires a jury trial only upon an effort to collect
payment of monetary damages, see Jarkesy, 603 U.S. at 123. 15 In fact, if
the FCC had instituted § 503(b)(4) proceedings, issued a Notice of
Apparent Liability, and ultimately chosen to admonish Verizon
instead of imposing a forfeiture, Verizon would equally experience
collateral consequences. But, crucially, the civil penalties—the thing

15 To the extent Verizon’s complaints might implicate due process or some other
constitutional matter, Verizon has waived such claims by failing to raise them in its brief.
See JP Morgan Chase Bank v. Altos Hornos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., 412 F.3d 418, 428 (2d Cir.
2005).




                                             36
that Jarkesy tells us is most important for assessing whether the
Seventh Amendment applies—would not exist. And ultimately, if the
government declined to pursue the collection action within five years,
Verizon would be under no obligation to pay and would suffer no
Seventh Amendment injury.
       Verizon and its amici’s final challenge to the constitutional
sufficiency of a § 504(a) trial concerns the scope of the trial itself.
Relying primarily on the Fifth Circuit’s decision in United States v.
Stevens, Verizon objects that defendants in § 504(a) trials cannot
challenge the FCC’s legal interpretations or raise constitutional
challenges. 691 F.3d 620, 622–24 (5th Cir. 2012). In brief, that is not
the law of this Circuit. For one, we think that § 504(a) “says what it
means and means what it says.” Oklahoma v. Castro-Huerta, 597 U.S.
629, 642 (2022) (quotation marks omitted). Textually speaking, “trial
de novo” plainly indicates that the parties would start afresh in
federal court, and consequently that Verizon would be able to
challenge both the factual and legal bases of the FCC’s forfeiture
order. 47 U.S.C. § 504(a). Indeed, a “trial de novo” means “[a] new
trial on the entire case—that is, on both questions of fact and issues of
law—conducted as if there had been no trial in the first instance.” Trial
de novo, BLACK’S LAW DICTIONARY (12th ed. 2024). In any given trial,
the parties can raise questions of law by debating what should be
included in the jury instructions. The parties can then appeal any
determinations that the district court makes on those instructions,
which the Court of Appeals would review de novo. See United States
v. Estevez, 961 F.3d 519, 526–27 (2d Cir. 2020).        Nothing in the
Communication Act’s guarantee of a “trial de novo” suggests that a




                                   37
§ 504(a) trial would not follow that same course. 47 U.S.C. § 504(a).
We therefore disagree with the Fifth Circuit’s holding in Stevens.
        Moreover, given the Supreme Court’s recent decision in
McLaughlin Chiropractic Associates, Inc. v. McKesson Corp., 606 U.S. 146
(2025), it is questionable whether Stevens remains good law at all. In
Stevens, the Fifth Circuit reasoned that the district court lacked
jurisdiction to consider legal challenges to the validity of a forfeiture
order in a § 504(a) trial because § 402(a), by reference to the Hobbs
Act, vests courts of appeals with “‘exclusive jurisdiction . . . to
determine the validity of’ final FCC forfeiture orders.” 691 F.3d at 623
(quoting 28 U.S.C. § 2342). McLaughlin, however, teaches that “[t]he
Hobbs Act does not preclude district courts in enforcement
proceedings from independently assessing whether an agency’s
interpretation of the relevant statute is correct,” so it may well
abrogate Stevens. 606 U.S. at 152. 16 But even if that were not the case,
we would not find Stevens’ reasoning persuasive. While § 402(a), the
Communication Act’s general review provision, vests such exclusive
jurisdiction in the courts of appeals, “[i]t is a commonplace of
statutory construction that the specific governs the general.” Nat’l
Labor Rels. Bd. v. SW Gen., Inc., 580 U.S. 288, 305 (2017) (quotation


16 That Stevens remained good law when Verizon was deciding whether to pay the
forfeiture and seek judicial review in a court of appeals or to forgo payment until the
government brought a § 504(a) enforcement action is, for our purposes, immaterial. True,
the FCC could have pursued a collection action in a Circuit that follows the Stevens rule
because Verizon is subject to nationwide venue under § 504(a). See 47 U.S.C. § 504(a)
(providing that a § 504(a) action may be “brought in the district where the . . . carrier has
its principal operating office or in any district through which the line or system of the
carrier runs”). But if that had been the case, then it would have been up to Verizon to raise
its Seventh Amendment challenge before that Circuit, as it has done here.




                                             38
marks omitted). And here, § 504(a) creates a specific “exception to
[the] general rule” for government actions for the recovery of
forfeiture penalties. AT&T Corp., 323 F.3d at 1084. In other words,
despite its protestations, Verizon waived any right it had to the same
kind of trial the SEC’s enforcement targets have post-Jarkesy.
       Accordingly, we conclude that, assuming Verizon has a
Seventh Amendment right to a trial by jury, those rights were not
violated because it had, but chose to forgo, an opportunity for a
§ 504(a) trial.

                           CONCLUSION

       For the foregoing reasons, the petition for review is DENIED.




                                  39
