USCA4 Appeal: 22-1879      Doc: 36             Filed: 02/25/2025   Pg: 1 of 12




                                                UNPUBLISHED

                               UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
                                   FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT


                                                  No. 22-1879


        SOUTHERN APPALACHIAN COAL COMPANY,

                     Plaintiff - Petitioner,

              v.


        ARVIL F. HENDRICKS; DIRECTOR, OFFICE OF WORKERS’
        COMPENSATION PROGRAMS, UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF
        LABOR,

                     Defendants - Respondents.



        On Petition for Review of an Order of the Benefits Review Board. (21-0475 BLA)


        Argued: September 24, 2024                                     Decided: February 25, 2025


        Before DIAZ, Chief Judge, WILKINSON and BERNER, Circuit Judges.


        Affirmed by unpublished opinion. Judge Berner wrote the opinion, in which Chief Judge
        Diaz and Judge Wilkinson joined.


        Mark Joseph Grigoraci, ROBINSON & MCELWEE, PLLC, Charleston, West Virginia,
        for Petitioner. Brad Anthony Austin, WOLFE WILLIAMS & REYNOLDS, Norton,
        Virginia, for Respondents.


        Unpublished opinions are not binding precedent in this circuit.
USCA4 Appeal: 22-1879      Doc: 36         Filed: 02/25/2025     Pg: 2 of 12




        BERNER, Circuit Judge:

              Arvil Hendricks is a former coal miner. Years after his last coal mining job,

        Hendricks began experiencing severe pulmonary difficulties and submitted a claim for

        benefits under the Black Lung Benefits Act. Upon initial review, a Department of Labor

        claims examiner found Hendricks entitled to benefits and concluded that the Southern

        Appalachian Coal Company, Hendricks’s most recent employer, was responsible for

        payment. The employer contested Hendricks’s entitlement to benefits, and the case came

        before an administrative law judge. The administrative law judge reviewed the evidence

        submitted by the parties, including expert physician reports, and found Hendricks entitled

        to benefits. The Benefits Review Board unanimously affirmed. The Southern Appalachian

        Coal Company appeals that ruling.

               The Southern Appalachian Coal Company urges us to reverse the Benefits Review

        Board for three reasons. The employer argues that: first, the conclusions of the

        administrative law judge were not supported by substantial evidence; second, the

        administrative law judge erred in failing to consider a supplemental report prepared by one

        of the employer’s expert physicians; and third, the administrative law judge erred by

        implicitly applying the so-called fifteen-year presumption. We disagree and affirm.



                                              I. Background

              Hendricks worked as a coal miner for at least eight years until 1983 when he fell

        from a ladder inside of a mine owned by his then-employer the Southern Appalachian Coal



                                                    2
USCA4 Appeal: 22-1879      Doc: 36         Filed: 02/25/2025      Pg: 3 of 12




        Company (Appalachian Coal). As a result of the injuries he sustained in the fall, Hendricks

        has been unable to work ever since.

               More than three decades after leaving the mines, Hendricks began experiencing

        severe pulmonary difficulties. He has trouble engaging in routine physical activities and

        uses an oxygen machine at night while he sleeps. Hendricks’s physician told him he was

        likely suffering from pneumoconiosis resulting from inhalation of coal dust during his

        years working in the mines. Pneumoconiosis, also known as “black lung disease,” is a

        medical condition that has long plagued coal miners.

               In addition to his pulmonary difficulties, Hendricks has several other serious

        medical conditions. He is obese, and suffers from hypertension, heart disease, and arthritis.

        He has skeletal deformities which may have been caused by fractured ribs. Hendricks was

        also a smoker. Although there is some dispute as to how much he smoked and for how

        long, the parties agree that Hendricks stopped smoking approximately thirty years ago.

               In 2018, Hendricks applied for benefits under the Black Lung Benefits Act. Upon

        initial review, a claims examiner from the United States Department of Labor (DOL)

        concluded that Hendricks was entitled to monthly payments of $1,004 from Appalachian

        Coal. Appalachian Coal contested this determination, and the matter came before an

        administrative law judge (ALJ).

               The ALJ held a hearing and considered arguments, medical evidence, and testimony

        submitted by the parties. The medical evidence included reports prepared by physicians

        with expertise in diagnosing pneumoconiosis. The physician experts included: Drs. David

        M. Rosenberg and Mohammad I. Ranavaya, retained by Appalachian Coal; Dr. Vishal Raj,

                                                     3
USCA4 Appeal: 22-1879      Doc: 36         Filed: 02/25/2025     Pg: 4 of 12




        retained by the DOL; and Drs. Elie Nader and Griwan Lal Rajbhandari, retained by

        Hendricks.

               After examining Hendricks and the results of various medical tests he underwent,

        three expert physicians, Drs. Raj, Nader, and Rajbhandari, diagnosed Hendricks with “legal

        pneumoconiosis.” Legal pneumoconiosis is a medical condition defined by federal

        regulation. It includes “any chronic lung disease or impairment and its sequelae arising out

        of coal mine employment. This definition includes, but is not limited to, any chronic

        restrictive or obstructive pulmonary disease arising out of coal mine employment.”

        20 C.F.R. § 718.201. 1 Notably, the definition of legal pneumoconiosis includes within it a

        finding that the medical condition arose “out of coal mine employment.”

               Drs. Ranavaya and Rosenberg disagreed with this finding. They both concluded that

        Hendricks did not suffer from legal pneumoconiosis. Rather, Dr. Ranavaya attributed

        Hendricks’s pulmonary difficulties to his history of smoking, obesity, and skeletal

        deformities, and Dr. Rosenberg concluded that Hendricks’s pulmonary difficulties likely

        resulted from skeletal deformities alone. Both experts opined that Hendricks’s pulmonary

        difficulties had not been caused by exposure to coal dust.

               After submitting his initial report, Dr. Rosenberg reviewed the other expert

        physicians’ medical reports and prepared a supplemental report which was also submitted



               1
                In addition to legal pneumoconiosis, “clinical pneumoconiosis” is another medical
        condition defined by federal regulation. It is defined as “those diseases recognized by the
        medical community as pneumoconioses . . . including but not limited to coal workers
        pneumoconiosis, anthracosilicosis, [and] anthracosis.” 20 C.F.R. § 718.201. Only legal
        pneumoconiosis is relevant to this appeal.
                                                     4
USCA4 Appeal: 22-1879       Doc: 36         Filed: 02/25/2025      Pg: 5 of 12




        to the ALJ. Dr. Rosenberg’s supplemental report summarized and responded to the other

        experts’ findings and reiterated his prior conclusion that Hendricks did not suffer from

        legal pneumoconiosis. Once again, Dr. Rosenberg opined that Hendricks’s pulmonary

        difficulties had resulted from his skeletal deformities, but Dr. Rosenberg added that the

        difficulties could also be attributed to obesity and heart disease.

               After reviewing the evidence and holding a hearing, the ALJ concluded that

        Hendricks suffers from legal pneumoconiosis, that he is totally disabled, and that his legal

        pneumoconiosis was a substantially contributing cause of his total disability. The ALJ

        considered each of the expert physicians’ opinions but gave greater weight to the opinions

        of Drs. Raj, Nader, and Rajbhandari than those of Drs. Ranavaya and Rosenberg.

        Consequently, the ALJ determined that Hendricks is entitled to black lung benefits from

        Appalachian Coal.

               Appalachian Coal appealed the order of the ALJ to the Benefits Review Board

        (BRB). Before the BRB, Appalachian Coal argued the ALJ erred in finding that Hendricks

        has legal pneumoconiosis, that the pneumoconiosis arose out of Hendricks’s coal mine

        employment, and that Hendricks is totally disabled. Further, Appalachian Coal argued that

        the ALJ erred by failing to consider Dr. Rosenberg’s supplemental report, and improperly

        applied the so-called fifteen-year presumption.

               The BRB rejected each of Appalachian Coal’s arguments, unanimously affirming

        the ALJ’s order. The BRB held that the ALJ’s factual findings were supported by

        substantial evidence. The BRB declined to reach the question of whether the ALJ erred in

        failing to consider the Rosenberg supplemental report. Instead, the BRB concluded that,

                                                      5
USCA4 Appeal: 22-1879      Doc: 36         Filed: 02/25/2025     Pg: 6 of 12




        even if the ALJ erred, such error was harmless. Finally, the BRB found that the ALJ had

        not applied the fifteen-year presumption. Appalachian Coal appeals the BRB’s ruling.



                                 II. Jurisdiction and Standard of Review

              Final orders of the BRB may be appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for

        the circuit in which the injury is alleged to have occurred. 33 U.S.C. § 921(c). Because

        Hendricks alleges his injury occurred in West Virginia, we have jurisdiction. In reviewing

        decisions of the BRB, we evaluate the BRB and ALJ’s legal conclusions de novo and defer

        to an ALJ’s factual findings if supported by substantial evidence. Sea “B” Mining Co. v.

        Addison, 831 F.3d 244, 252 (4th Cir. 2016). When faced with conflicting medical opinions,

        we apply the deferential substantial evidence standard of review. Id. It is not our role to

        “reweigh contradictory medical evidence.” Id.



                                               III. Analysis

               To be eligible for benefits under the Black Lung Benefits Act, a miner must satisfy

        four elements. The miner must show: first, that they suffer from pneumoconiosis, either

        legal or clinical; second, that their pneumoconiosis arose out of their coal mining

        employment; third, that they are totally disabled by a pulmonary or respiratory impairment;

        and fourth, that that their pneumoconiosis is a substantially contributing cause of their

        disability. Island Creek Coal Co. v. Blankenship, 123 F.4th 684, 688 (4th Cir. 2024)

        (quoting Milburn Colliery Co. v. Hicks, 138 F.3d 524, 529 (4th Cir. 1998)). The burden of



                                                    6
USCA4 Appeal: 22-1879      Doc: 36         Filed: 02/25/2025     Pg: 7 of 12




        proof is on the miner to prove each element by a preponderance of the evidence. Sea “B”

        Mining Co., 831 F.3d at 248.

               In determining whether a miner has met their burden to prove that they have legal

        pneumoconiosis, an ALJ may consider medical evidence including x-rays, autopsies, and

        biopsies, as well as reasoned medical opinions. 20 C.F.R. § 718.202(a). Here, the ALJ

        relied largely on medical opinion evidence.

                                A.     The ALJ’s Pneumoconiosis Finding

               Appalachian Coal argues that the ALJ’s findings in favor of Hendricks on three of

        the four elements were not supported by substantial evidence. Appalachian Coal challenges

        the findings: that Hendricks has legal pneumoconiosis (the first element); that there is a

        causal relationship between Hendricks’s pneumoconiosis and his mining employment (the

        second element); and, that there is a causal relationship between Hendricks’s disability and

        his mining employment (the fourth element). Appalachian Coal does not challenge the

        ALJ’s finding with respect to the third element, the finding that Hendricks is totally

        disabled.

                               1.      Legal Pneumoconiosis and Causation

               As a threshold matter, because the ALJ determined that Hendricks suffers from legal

        pneumoconiosis, rather than clinical pneumoconiosis, the first two elements of the four

        necessarily collapse into one. This is because a finding of legal pneumoconiosis

        definitionally also includes a finding that the ailment arose out of coal mine employment.

        Am. Energy, LLC v. Dir., Off. of Workers’ Comp. Programs, 106 F.4th 319, 325 (4th Cir.



                                                      7
USCA4 Appeal: 22-1879      Doc: 36           Filed: 02/25/2025      Pg: 8 of 12




        2024). Evaluating causation after reaching a finding of legal pneumoconiosis would,

        therefore, be redundant. Id.

               Appalachian Coal argues that the ALJ’s conclusion that Hendricks suffers from

        legal pneumoconiosis was not supported by substantial evidence. The ALJ considered all

        five of the medical opinions submitted, each of the expert’s credentials, the medical

        evidence upon which they relied, and their conclusions. The ALJ explained his reasoning

        for giving each medical opinion more or less weight. The ALJ properly evaluated the

        contradictory medical opinions in a manner consistent with this court’s precedent. We

        conclude, therefore, that the ALJ’s factual determination that Hendricks suffers from legal

        pneumoconiosis was supported by substantial evidence.

                                        2.         Causal Relationship

               Appalachian Coal similarly contends that the ALJ’s finding that Hendricks’s

        pneumoconiosis substantially contributed to his total disability was not supported by

        substantial evidence. The ALJ’s finding that Hendricks suffers from legal pneumoconiosis

        dovetails in large part with the finding regarding the cause of Hendricks’s disability. The

        expert physicians who concluded that Hendricks did not suffer from legal pneumoconiosis

        did not delve deeply into the question of what caused Hendricks’s disability. Thus, their

        reports were less helpful on this point.

               Regardless, as with his analysis of the first element, the ALJ reviewed the evidence

        presented regarding the cause of Hendricks’s disability and explained in sufficient detail

        why he found Drs. Rajbhandari, Nader, and Raj’s conclusions that Hendricks’s disability



                                                        8
USCA4 Appeal: 22-1879       Doc: 36         Filed: 02/25/2025      Pg: 9 of 12




        was caused by legal pneumoconiosis persuasive. The ALJ’s conclusions regarding this

        fourth element were supported by substantial evidence.

                                 B. Dr. Rosenberg’s Supplemental Report

               Next, Appalachian Coal argues that the ALJ erred by failing to consider all the

        relevant evidence. Specifically, Appalachian Coal argues that the ALJ failed to consider

        the supplemental report submitted by its expert Dr. Rosenberg. Appalachian Coal contends

        that failure to consider this report was not harmless and that it necessitates reversal.

               Administrative law judges hearing black lung benefits cases are required to consider

        all relevant evidence submitted. 30 U.S.C. § 923(b); see, e.g., Island Creek Coal Co. v.

        Compton, 211 F.3d 203, 210–11 (4th Cir. 2000); Sea “B” Mining Co, 831 F.3d at 251–53.

        Failure to consider all the evidence does not necessarily require reversal, however. Sea “B”

        Mining Co, 831 F.3d at 254. Where an ALJ failed to consider relevant evidence, we must

        then determine whether the error was harmless. Id. at 253–54. An error is harmless if the

        excluded evidence was “merely cumulative.” Id. at 254.

               The ALJ began his decision and order by making clear that he had “reviewed and

        considered the entire record, including all exhibits admitted into evidence.” J.A. 339

        (emphasis added). Further, footnote 1 of the decision and order lists as one of the exhibits

        admitted into evidence Employer’s Exhibit 5, Dr. Rosenberg’s supplemental report.

        Although Appalachian Coal correctly notes that the ALJ does not specifically discuss the

        supplemental report in his analysis, we take the ALJ at his word that Dr. Rosenberg’s report

        was among the evidence considered.



                                                      9
USCA4 Appeal: 22-1879      Doc: 36         Filed: 02/25/2025      Pg: 10 of 12




               Upon careful review of the contents of Dr. Rosenberg’s supplemental report,

        however, we agree with the BRB that, even if the ALJ did err in failing to review the report,

        such error was harmless. Dr. Rosenberg did not reexamine Hendricks prior to issuing his

        supplemental report. Thus, the report was not based upon new medical information. To the

        contrary, the supplemental report largely repeated the findings contained in Dr.

        Rosenberg’s first report and summarized the evaluations and conclusions submitted by the

        other expert physicians. Significantly, the ALJ afforded Dr. Rosenberg’s initial report less

        weight because Dr. Rosenberg failed to explain a causal link between Hendricks’s skeletal

        deformities and his pulmonary illness. J.A. 356. Dr. Rosenberg’s supplemental report

        suffers from the same deficiency. Because the supplemental report was largely cumulative

        and because it failed to address the primary concern articulated by the ALJ regarding Dr.

        Rosenberg’s initial report, the ALJ is unlikely to have credited the supplemental report.

                                       C. Fifteen-Year Presumption

               Finally, Appalachian Coal argues that the ALJ erred by implicitly applying the

        fifteen-year presumption to Hendricks’s case. If a miner worked for at least fifteen years

        in coal mines and they suffer from a totally disabling respiratory or pulmonary impairment,

        then their disability is presumed to have been caused by pneumoconiosis.

        30 U.S.C. § 921(c)(4); 20 C.F.R. § 718.305. This presumption, thus, shifts the burden of

        proof on the fourth element from the miner to the employer to prove that the miner’s

        disability was not caused by pneumoconiosis. W. Va. CWP Fund v. Dir., Off. of Workers’

        Comp. Programs, 880 F.3d 691, 695 (4th Cir. 2018).



                                                     10
USCA4 Appeal: 22-1879      Doc: 36         Filed: 02/25/2025      Pg: 11 of 12




               The parties agree that the fifteen-year presumption should not be applied here. The

        DOL claims examiner, the ALJ, and the BRB all agreed that the presumption is not

        appropriate because Hendricks worked in the mines fewer than fifteen years. Despite the

        ALJ’s statement that he did not apply the presumption, Appalachian Coal contends the

        ALJ’s analysis was “tantamount to imposing the [rebuttable] burden of the fifteen-year

        presumption.” Petitioner Opening Br. at 16. Appalachian Coal maintains that the ALJ

        improperly required its expert physicians to rule out coal dust as a causal factor of

        Hendricks’s impairment, rather than requiring Hendricks to prove that it was the cause. We

        disagree. The ALJ imposed no such requirement.

               The ALJ properly applied the correct legal standard and emphasized throughout his

        decision and order that Hendricks bore the burden of proving his eligibility for benefits.

        After reviewing the evidence and evaluating the expert medical reports, the ALJ concluded

        that Hendricks “met his burden to establish that he has legal pneumoconiosis and he is

        totally disabled due to the disease.” J.A. 359 (emphasis added). The ALJ properly placed

        the burden of proof on Hendricks to prove by a preponderance of the evidence each element

        of the four-element test, including the final element, proving that his total disability was

        caused by his legal pneumoconiosis.



                                              IV. Conclusion

               The ALJ’s findings were supported by substantial evidence. The ALJ considered

        Dr. Rosenberg’s supplemental report, and even if he failed to consider the report, such error



                                                     11
USCA4 Appeal: 22-1879     Doc: 36         Filed: 02/25/2025   Pg: 12 of 12




        was harmless. Finally, the administrative law judge did not—implicitly or explicitly—

        apply the fifteen-year presumption.

              Accordingly, the order of the BRB is

                                                                                AFFIRMED.




                                                  12
