                FOR PUBLICATION

   UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
        FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

JACOBO JAJATI,                          No. 22-56015

             Plaintiff-Appellant,          D.C. No.
                                        3:22-cv-00175-
 v.                                       RBM-AGS

UNITED STATES CUSTOMS AND
BORDER PROTECTION; TROY A.                OPINION
MILLER, in his official capacity as
the Acting Commissioner of the
United States Customs and Border
Protection; DOES, 1 through 10,
inclusive,

             Defendants-Appellees.

      Appeal from the United States District Court
         for the Southern District of California
  Ruth Bermudez Montenegro, District Judge, Presiding

        Argued and Submitted December 4, 2023
                 Pasadena, California

                  Filed May 22, 2024

Before: Carlos T. Bea, Milan D. Smith, Jr., and Lawrence
               VanDyke, Circuit Judges.
2             JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


                    Opinion by Judge Bea;
                  Dissent by Judge VanDyke


                          SUMMARY *


               Administrative Procedure Act

    The panel reversed the district court’s order granting the
motion of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”)
to dismiss for lack of subject matter jurisdiction, and
remanded with instructions that the district court consider
Jacobo Jajati’s Administrative Procedure Act (“APA”)
claim on the merits in the first instance.
    The Secure Electronic Network for Travelers Rapid
Inspection (“SENTRI”) is a “Trusted Traveler Program,”
enabled by 8 U.S.C. § 1365b, that allows a member to avoid
a full inspection process when crossing the United States-
Mexico border. The CBP revoked Jajati’s SENTRI
membership, then reinstated it, then revoked it again without
explanation. Jajati brought suit seeking an order that CBP’s
revocation decision violated the APA and requesting that his
SENTRI membership be reinstated. The district court held
that CBP’s decisions to revoke SENTRI memberships were
not subject to judicial review because administration of
SENTRI was committed to agency discretion under 5 U.S.C.
§ 701(a)(2).



*
 This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
            JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.          3


    The panel held that § 701(a)(2) does not bar judicial
review of Jajati’s APA claims. Although CBP has broad
discretion to revoke SENTRI memberships, the APA
recognizes that discretion can be abused. The law governing
SENTRI provides meaningful standards under which courts
can review whether CBP wielded its discretion in a
permissible manner. Jajati’s case is, therefore, not one of
those rare instances in which the court lacks jurisdiction
because there is no law to apply. The panel reversed the
district court’s dismissal for lack of subject matter
jurisdiction.
    The panel remanded for the district court to consider
whether CBP’s decision to revoke Jajati’s SENTRI
membership violated the APA. In making its determination,
the district court should consider whether CBP failed to
consider the criteria in 8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(4)(x) when it
determined Jajati was ineligible to participate in SENTRI.
The district court should review CBP’s factual findings
under the “substantial evidence” standard, and give due
deference to the agency’s expertise.
    Dissenting, Judge VanDyke would hold that SENTRI
eligibility is exactly the kind of administrative action
committed to agency discretion by § 701(a)(2) of the
APA. The criteria included in the SENTRI regulations do
not provide a meaningful standard against which to judge the
agency’s exercise of its discretion because they are neither
exhaustive nor meaningfully defined. In addition, the
complicated balancing of the listed criteria when making a
risk determination is a matter peculiarly within the agency’s
expertise. Judge VanDyke would therefore affirm the
district court’s dismissal for lack of subject matter
jurisdiction.
4           JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


                        COUNSEL

Saman Nasseri (argued), Nasseri Legal, San Diego,
California, for Plaintiff-Appellant.
Janet A. Cabral (argued), Assistant United States Attorney;
Katherine Parker, Assistant United States Attorney, Civil
Division Chief; Randy S. Grossman, United States Attorney;
Office of the United States Attorney, San Diego, California;
for Defendants-Appellees.


                        OPINION

BEA, Circuit Judge:

    We are called upon to decide whether § 701(a)(2) of the
Administrative Procedure Act (“APA”), which bars judicial
review of agency actions that are “committed to agency
discretion by law,” 5 U.S.C. § 701(a)(2), precludes us from
reviewing the United States Customs and Border
Protection’s (“CBP”) discretionary decisions to revoke
individual memberships in the Secure Electronic Network
for Travelers Rapid Inspection (“SENTRI”) program.
    SENTRI is a “Trusted Traveler Program,” enabled by 8
U.S.C. § 1365b. Under § 1365b, the Department of
Homeland Security (“DHS”) is authorized to establish
programs that allow pre-approved, low-risk travelers to cross
the United States border more easily. In 1996, DHS finalized
rules that created the “PORTPASS” program of which
SENTRI is a part. See 8 C.F.R. § 235.7; 61 Fed. Reg. 53830,
53831–32 (Oct. 16, 1996). One benefit of SENTRI is that a
member need not go through the full inspection process
when he crosses the United States–Mexico border. A
            JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.           5


SENTRI member, in turn, faces a shorter wait time when
crossing the border relative to other persons. SENTRI is
administered by CBP.
    In 2018, Plaintiff-Appellant Jacobo Jajati’s estranged ex-
wife was arrested for crossing the border with prohibited
drugs: methamphetamine. On the same day of her arrest,
Jajati received a notice from CBP that his SENTRI
membership had been revoked. The notice stated only that
Jajati did not meet the guidelines to participate in the
SENTRI program. Jajati’s SENTRI membership was later
reinstated, and then again revoked. CBP has never explained
why it deemed Jajati ineligible, then eligible, and then again
ineligible, to participate in SENTRI.
    In 2022, Jajati brought suit in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of California. Jajati claimed
that CBP’s decision to revoke his SENTRI membership was
arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or not in
accordance with the law, in violation of the APA, 5 U.S.C.
§ 706(2)(A). He sought an order declaring that CBP’s
revocation decision violated the APA and requested that his
membership in SENTRI be reinstated.
    The district court held CBP’s decisions to revoke
SENTRI memberships are not subject to judicial review
because the administration of SENTRI is “committed to
agency discretion by law.” Id. § 701(a)(2). The district court
thus dismissed Jajati’s claim for lack of subject matter
jurisdiction. Jajati appeals.
    We have jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1291. We hold
that § 701(a)(2) does not bar judicial review of Jajati’s APA
claims. Although CBP has broad discretion to revoke
SENTRI memberships, the APA itself recognizes that
discretion can be “abuse[d].” 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A). And the
6           JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


law governing SENTRI provides meaningful standards
under which courts can review whether CBP wielded its
discretion in a permissible manner. Jajati’s case is therefore
not one of those rare instances in which we lack jurisdiction
because “there is truly no law to apply.” See Perez Perez v.
Wolf, 943 F.3d 853, 861 (9th Cir. 2019) (internal quotation
marks omitted). Hence, we reverse the district court’s order
which granted CBP’s motion to dismiss for lack of subject
matter jurisdiction. We remand with instructions that the
district court consider, in the first instance, whether CBP’s
decision to revoke Jajati’s SENTRI membership violated the
APA.
                              I.
                             A.
   Jajati is a United States citizen who resides in San Diego,
California. Prior to the events at issue here, Jajati had been
approved to participate in SENTRI.
    In 2013, Jajati separated from his then-wife, Margarita
Rozillio Jajati (“Margarita”). Their divorce became final in
May 2015. Jajati and Margarita have two children together,
over whom Jajati has full custody. Jajati alleged that neither
he, nor his children, have any ongoing personal or business
connection with Margarita. Neither Jajati nor his children
communicate, jointly own property or businesses, share
bank accounts, or engage in any financial transactions with
Margarita. Jajati also alleged that he has never been
convicted or charged with any criminal misconduct, nor does
he have any association with criminal conduct by others.
   In October 2018, Margarita was arrested for crossing the
border with methamphetamine. She posted bail and
            JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.         7


absconded. Margarita is subject to an outstanding warrant
for her arrest.
    On the same day Margarita was arrested, Jajati received
notice from CBP that his SENTRI membership had been
revoked. The notice stated that Jajati did “not meet SENTRI
guidelines,” but provided no other explanation for CBP’s
decision to revoke Jajati’s SENTRI membership.
   In February 2019, Jajati had an interview with a CBP
agent concerning the revocation of his SENTRI
membership. At the interview, CBP did not question Jajati
about his ex-wife.
    In August 2019, Jajati received a notice that his
membership in SENTRI had been reinstated. The notice did
not relate why his membership had been terminated earlier,
nor why it had been reinstated now. In August 2021,
however, Jajati received another notice from CBP stating
that his membership had again been revoked. The notice
stated only that Jajati no longer qualified for the Trusted
Traveler Program. The notice did not explain why CBP had
determined that Jajati no longer qualified for the program.
    Jajati contested the revocation of his SENTRI
membership with CBP. In September 2021, Jajati sent CBP
a letter which requested that the agency send written notice
that explained its reasons for revoking Jajati’s SENTRI
membership. CBP never provided such an explanation.
   Around September 30, 2021, Jajati had another interview
with a CBP agent regarding the revocation of his SENTRI
membership. The agent refused to disclose why Jajati’s
SENTRI membership had been revoked. To date, CBP has
never provided any reasons for revoking Jajati’s SENTRI
membership in 2018, for reinstating it in 2019, or for
8           JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


revoking it again in 2021. Jajati’s SENTRI membership
remains revoked.
                             B.
   On February 7, 2022, Jajati filed suit in the Southern
District of California against CBP and Troy A. Miller, the
Acting Commissioner of CBP. Jajati claimed that CBP’s
decision to revoke his SENTRI membership and failure to
provide an adequate explanation for doing so violated the
APA, 5 U.S.C. § 706. Jajati sought a declaration that CBP’s
revocation of his SENTRI membership violated the APA.
He requested that the court set aside CBP’s revocation
decision and order CBP to reinstate Jajati’s SENTRI
membership.
    CBP moved to dismiss Jajati’s complaint for lack of
subject matter jurisdiction. CBP argued that decisions to
revoke SENTRI memberships are “committed to agency
discretion by law,” 5 U.S.C. § 701(a)(2), such that judicial
review of Jajati’s claim is unavailable under the APA.
    The district court granted CBP’s motion and dismissed
Jajati’s claim. It concluded that there were no judicially
manageable standards to assess how and when CBP should
exercise its discretion to revoke an individual’s SENTRI
membership. Thus, the court held that it was “precluded
from reviewing the agency’s decision.” For the reasons
stated below, we reverse and remand.
                             II.
    The statue governing SENTRI is 8 U.S.C. § 1365b,
which instructs the DHS Secretary to “establish an
international registered traveler program that incorporates
available technologies . . . to expedite the screening and
processing of international travelers, including United States
             JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.              9


Citizens and residents, who enter and exit the United States.”
8 U.S.C. § 1365b(k)(3)(A). The statute directs the Secretary
to “ensure that the international registered traveler program
includes as many participants as practicable,” by
“establishing a reasonable cost of enrollment,” “making
program enrollment convenient and easily accessible,” and
“providing applicants with clear and consistent eligibility
guidelines.” Id. § 1365b(k)(3)(E). The statute also directs the
Secretary to “initiate a rulemaking to establish the program,
criteria for participation, and the fee for the program.” Id.
§ 1356(k)(3)(C).
    Acting pursuant to this authority, DHS promulgated a
rule, 8 C.F.R. § 235.7, which establishes the “PORTPASS”
program. That program is designed to “provid[e] access to
the United States for a group of identified, low-risk, border
crossers.” 8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(1)(i). SENTRI is one of the
programs established under the PORTPASS program. 75
Fed. Reg. 82202, 82202–03 (Dec. 29, 2010). Several
provisions of the regulation are relevant here.
    First, the regulation establishes general eligibility criteria
and application requirements for PORTPASS applicants.
Applicants must be citizens or lawful permanent residents of
the United States, or nonimmigrants determined to be
eligible; must agree to furnish all information requested on
the application; and must agree to terms set forth by CBP. 8
C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(3).
    Second, the regulation provides that an “application may
be denied in the discretion of the district director having
jurisdiction over the [Port-of-Entry (“POE”)] where the
applicant requests access.” Id. § 235.7(a)(4)(x). The
regulation also enumerates specific criteria that CBP
“will . . . consider[]” when it evaluates a SENTRI applicant:
10           JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


“admissibility to the United States and documentation so
evidencing, criminal history and/or evidence of criminality,
purpose of travel, employment, residency, prior immigration
history, possession of current driver’s license, vehicle
insurance and registration, and vehicle inspection.” Id.
Notice of a denial must be given to the applicant. Id.
    Third, the regulation provides that access to a
PORTPASS program may be “revoked at the discretion of
the district director or the chief patrol agent,” if the
participant (1) “violates any condition of the PORTPASS
program,” (2) “violated any immigration law or regulation,
or a law or regulation of the United States Customs Service
or other Federal Inspection Service,” or (3) is “otherwise
determined by an immigration officer to be inadmissible to
the United States or ineligible to participate in PORTPASS.”
Id. § 235.7(b).
                             III.
    We review de novo a district court’s dismissal for lack
of subject matter jurisdiction. Perez Perez, 943 F.3d at 860.
                              A.
    The APA confers a cause of action upon persons
“adversely affected or aggrieved by agency action.” Block v.
Cmty. Nutrition Inst., 467 U.S. 340, 345 (1984) (quoting 5
U.S.C. § 702). Under the APA, a court shall “hold unlawful
and set aside agency action, findings, and conclusions” that
the court finds “arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion,
or otherwise not in accordance with law.” 5 U.S.C.
§ 706(2)(A). There is a strong “presumption in favor of
judicial review of final agency action” under the APA. Perez
Perez 943 F.3d at 860; see Bowen v. Mich. Acad. of Fam.
Physicians, 476 U.S. 667, 670 (1986) (noting the “strong
               JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.                   11


presumption that Congress intends judicial review of
administrative action”).
    The presumption of judicial review can be overcome,
however, if the challenged agency action is “committed to
agency discretion by law.” 5 U.S.C. § 701(a)(2). As the
Supreme Court has instructed, this exception to judicial
review is read “quite narrowly.” Perez Perez, 943 F.3d at
860 (quoting Weyerhaeuser Co. v. U.S. Fish & Wildlife
Serv., 568 U.S. 9, 23 (2018)). Section 701(a)(2) does not
preclude judicial review of all discretionary decisions
because the APA itself “command[s] that courts set aside
agency action that is an abuse of discretion.” Dep’t of
Commerce v. New York, 139 S. Ct. 2551, 2568 (2019); see 5
U.S.C. § 706(2)(A). Instead, agency action is “committed to
agency discretion by law” only in “those rare instances
where statutes are drawn in such broad terms that in a given
case there is no law to apply, thereby leaving the court with
no meaningful standard against which to judge the agency’s
exercise of discretion.” 1 Pinnacle Armor, Inc. v. United
States, 648 F.3d 708, 719 (9th Cir. 2011) (cleaned up) (first
quoting Webster v. Doe, 486 U.S. 592, 599 (1988); and then
quoting Heckler v. Chaney, 470 U.S. 821, 830 (1985)).
    Accordingly, we have held “an agency’s sole
discretionary authority is not inconsistent with judicial

1
  Even if a statute grants an agency unfettered discretion, an agency’s
decision may “nonetheless be reviewed if regulations or agency practice
provide a meaningful standard by which this court may review its
exercise of discretion.” ASSE Int’l, Inc. v. Kerry, 803 F.3d 1059, 1069
(9th Cir. 2015) (internal quotation marks omitted) (quoting Spencer
Enters., Inc. v. United States, 345 F.3d 683, 688 (9th Cir. 2003)). Hence,
whether the meaningful standards derive from a statute or regulation is
irrelevant to the question whether § 701(a)(2) bars judicial review. See
Trout Unlimited v. Pirazdeh, 1 F.4th 738, 753 (9th Cir. 2021).
12           JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


review of the agency’s exercise of that discretion.” Perez
Perez, 943 F.3d at 863; see Beno v. Shalala, 30 F.3d 1057,
1066 (9th Cir. 1994) (“[T]he mere fact that a statute contains
discretionary language does not make agency action
unreviewable.”). Indeed, “courts routinely treat discretion-
laden standards as providing ‘law to apply’” because “[e]ven
if a determination is discretionary, it may still be rooted in a
set of requirements or standards” that courts can use to assess
whether an agency wielded its discretion in a permissible
manner. Perez Perez, 943 F.3d at 862–63. “The fact that an
agency has broad discretion in choosing whether to act does
not establish that the agency may justify its choice on
specious grounds.” Newman v. Apfel, 223 F.3d 937, 943 (9th
Cir. 2000).
     As we have summarized this principle:

        [W]here the [agency] has reserved to
        itself . . . certain decisions as within its
        “discretion,” or even its “sole discretion,” we
        will take into account the [agency’s]
        reservation and expertise and accord it the
        proper deference. But that does not deprive
        us of the right to review its actions for an
        abuse of its discretion or to determine if its
        actions were otherwise arbitrary and
        capricious.

ASSE, 803 F.3d at 1071 (citations omitted).
    This follows because judicial review under the APA
concerns not only the particular outcome the agency reaches,
but also the process in which the agency engages and the
reasoning the agency articulates when it reaches that
outcome. See, e.g., Dep’t of Commerce, 139 S. Ct. at 2575–
            JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.         13


76 (holding an agency violated the APA when it reached a
decision that may have otherwise been permissible, because
the agency did not comply with the “reasoned explanation
requirement of administrative law”). The fact that an agency
reaches an outcome that could conceivably fall within its
broad discretion is an issue entirely distinct from whether a
court has jurisdiction under the APA to even consider
whether the agency “justif[ied] its choice on specious
grounds,” see Newman, 223 F.3d at 943, failed to satisfy “the
general requirements of reasoned agency decisionmaking,”
see Dep’t of Commerce, 139 S. Ct. at 2569, or “fail[ed] to
comply with its own regulations,” see ASSE, 803 F.3d at
1069 (quoting Abdelhamid v. Ilchert, 774 F.2d 1447, 1450
(9th Cir. 1985)). See Trout Unlimited, 1 F.4th at 759
(distinguishing “reviewability” from the permissibility of “a
particular outcome”).
    Indeed, the APA “calls for an explanation for agency
action” that “can be scrutinized by courts and the interested
public.” Dep’t of Commerce, 139 S. Ct. at 2575–76. This is
precisely the way in which the APA promotes “political
accountability, which itself is the very premise of
administrative discretion in all its forms.” Newman, 223 F.3d
at 943. It is therefore only in those rare instances in which
there is “truly no law to apply” that § 701(a)(2) precludes a
court from reviewing whether the agency abused its
discretion or acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner.
Perez Perez, 943 F.3d at 861 (internal quotation marks
omitted).
                             B.
    Applying these principles here, we conclude that the
statute and regulation governing SENTRI provide
meaningful standards with which we can review whether
14          JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


CBP abused its discretion or acted in an arbitrary or
capricious manner when it revoked Jajati’s SENTRI
membership. See Pinnacle, 648 F.3d at 719; 5 U.S.C.
§ 706(A)(2). Hence, CBP’s decisions to revoke SENTRI
memberships are not absolutely and entirely “committed to
agency discretion by law.” See 5 U.S.C. § 701(a)(2). The
district court erred when it concluded to the contrary.
                              1.
    CBP argues that its decisions to revoke SENTRI
memberships are committed to its discretion because 8
C.F.R. § 235.7(b) provides that a membership may be
“revoked at the discretion of” the agency if the agency
“determine[s]” the person is “ineligible to participate” in
SENTRI. According to CBP, there is no standard to review
such a discretionary decision because the regulation does not
define how an individual is determined to be “ineligible” to
participate in SENTRI. We are unpersuaded.
    As we have explained, “[e]ven if a determination is
discretionary, it may still be rooted in a set of requirements
or standards” that enable judicial review. Perez Perez, 943
F.3d at 863. Here, the statute and regulation governing
SENTRI provide such meaningful standards. First, the
regulation establishes the goal of the program: to facilitate
border crossing for a group of “low-risk[] border crossers.”
8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(1)(i). The enabling statute also requires
that CBP “include[] as many participants as
practicable by . . . providing applicants with clear and
consistent      eligibility     guidelines.”      8     U.S.C.
§ 1365b(K)(3)(E). Finally, the regulation “establishes
agency duties,” see Perez Perez, 943 F.3d at 863, including
             JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.            15


the duty to consider certain criteria when CBP determines a
person’s eligibility for SENTRI:

        Criteria which will be considered in the
        decision to approve or deny the application
        include the following: admissibility to the
        United States and documentation so
        evidencing, criminal history and/or evidence
        of criminality,      purpose of travel,
        employment, residency, prior immigration
        history, possession of current driver’s
        license, vehicle insurance and registration,
        and vehicle inspection.

8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(4)(x) (emphasis added).
    The regulation, in turn, lists criteria CBP will consider
when it determines whether a person is ineligible for
SENTRI. “The word ‘will,’ like the word ‘shall,’ is a
mandatory term, unless something about the context in
which the word is used indicates otherwise.” Nat. Res. Def.
Council, Inc. v. Perry, 940 F.3d 1072, 1078 (9th Cir. 2019)
(citation omitted) (quoting Washington v. Harper, 494 U.S.
210, 221 (1990)). Hence, the use of the term “will,”
“prescribe[s] what the agency is required (or forbidden) to
do,” and “unambiguously imposes a mandatory duty that
constrains whatever discretion” CBP “might otherwise have
possessed.” See id. at 1078–79.
    Thus, in determining whether a SENTRI membership
can be revoked because a person is “otherwise . . . ineligible
to participate,” CBP has constrained its discretion and
required itself to consider, at least, the criteria outlined in 8
C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(4)(x). This is consistent with the enabling
statute’s requirement that CBP shall “include[] as many
16            JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


participants as practicable by . . . providing applicants with
clear and consistent eligibility guidelines.” 8 U.S.C.
§ 1365(b)(K)(3)(E). Moreover, the regulation establishes the
overarching objective of the program, which guides CBP
when it applies the mandatory criteria: to facilitate border
crossing for a group of “low-risk[] border crossers.” 2 8
C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(1)(i).
    We have made clear that such requirements and
standards provide courts with “law to apply,” even if the
standards are broad and the decision is otherwise
discretionary. In Keating v. F.A.A., for example, a passenger
pilot argued that the Federal Aviation Administration
(“FAA”) violated the APA when it declined to grant him an
exemption from a rule that made him ineligible to hold a
pilot license after he turned 60-years-old. 610 F.2d 611, 612
(9th Cir. 1979). The sole standard for judging the agency’s
discretion was a statute that provided the administrator could
grant such an exemption “if he finds that such action would
be in the public interest.” Id. We held that the agency’s
action was not committed to agency discretion by law under
§ 701(a)(2) of the APA, because “the ‘public interest’
standard provides law to be applied by the administrator
sufficient to permit judicial review.” Id.
   Similarly, in City of Los Angeles v. United States
Department of Commerce, a group of municipalities sued the
Department of Commerce after that agency had declined to
“adopt statistically adjusted population data” for purposes of

2
  Indeed, the revocation notice CBP sent Jajati in August 2021 provided
that criminal convictions, pending criminal charges, outstanding
warrants, or other circumstances “that indicate to CBP that you have not
qualified as low risk” “may make you ineligible for participation” in
SENTRI.
             JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.           17


redistricting after the 2000 Census. 307 F.3d 859, 864 (9th
Cir. 2002). The relevant statutory language stated only that
“the Secretary shall, if he considers it feasible, authorize the
use” of such statistical methods. Id. at 869. Again, we held
the “Secretary’s discretion to ‘consider’ whether sampling is
feasible does not defy meaningful judicial review” under the
APA. Id. at 869 n.6. As we explained:

       [A]lthough the phrase “if he considers it
       feasible” confers broad discretion, it has its
       limits. For example, if the Secretary had
       considered statistical adjustment but decided
       against it due to his political disinclinations,
       his decision would violate § 195. Thus, this is
       not a situation in which there is “no law to
       apply.”

Id. (citation omitted); see also Trout Unlimited, 1 F.4th at
756–57 (holding an agency’s failure to comply with its own
regulations was reviewable because the agency “chose to
constrain its discretion” by stating that the agency “shall”
take certain actions in the regulation); Taslimi v. Holder, 590
F.3d 981, 985–86 (9th Cir. 2010) (holding a standard that
required an alien to apply for asylum within a “reasonable
period” of experiencing changed personal circumstances
provided a meaningful standard because “the regulations
themselves provide a non-exhaustive list of potential
changed circumstances,“ and “refine[d] the standard by
which the ‘reasonable period’ may be evaluated by requiring
an adjudicator to consider” the alien’s awareness of his
changed circumstances); Beno, 30 F.3d at 1066–67 (holding
an agency’s decisions to waive federal welfare requirements
that “in the judgment of the Secretary [were] likely to assist
in promoting the [program’s] objectives,” were reviewable
18             JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


because the objectives of the statute were “set forth with
some specificity” in the statute); Pac. Nw. Generating Co-
op v. Bonneville Power Admin., 596 F.3d 1065, 1076–77
(9th Cir. 2010) (holding a statutory requirement to operate
in a manner “consistent with sound business principles”
provided a meaningful standard).
    These cases establish that the standards and criteria
enumerated in the SENTRI regulation provide law to apply
which allows a court to judge whether CBP has abused its
broad discretion in this case. The “low-risk” standard
articulated in the SENTRI regulation is “at least as specific”
as the public interest standard that we held to facilitate
judicial review under the APA in Keating. See Bonneville,
596 F.3d at 1076–77 (comparing “sound business
principles” to the “public interest” standard in Keating). And
like the “if he considers it feasible” standard in City of Los
Angeles, the “low-risk” standard articulated 8 C.F.R.
§ 235.7(a)(1)(i) “has its limits.” See City of Los Angeles, 307
F.3d at 869 n.6. 3 Particularly so given that, unlike in Keating
or City of Los Angeles, there are mandatory criteria in the
SENTRI regulation, 8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(4)(x), which
provide “a partial adjudicative standard in and of”
themselves by describing the type of information the agency
deems relevant when it determines whether an individual is
low risk. See Husyev v. Mukasey, 528 F.3d 1172, 1181 (9th
Cir. 2008). CBP might abuse its discretion under the APA if,
for example, it revoked a SENTRI membership solely

3
 The dissent reasons that Keating and City of Los Angeles represent this
Circuit’s “disappointing willingness to micromanage the discretionary
affairs of administrative agencies.” Diss. Op. at 49. But as a three-judge
panel, we are required to adhere to our Circuit authority in the absence
of intervening, clearly irreconcilable authority. Miller v. Gammie, 335
F.3d 889, 900 (9th Cir. 2003) (en banc).
               JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.                    19


because a CBP agent has personal animosity toward the
SENTRI member, because such a reason would be
untethered from the criteria in the regulation and would have
no bearing on whether the individual SENTRI member was
a “low-risk[] border crosser.” 8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(1)(i). The
law governing SENTRI, then, “do[es] not leave [CBP’s]
discretion unbounded.” See Dep’t of Commerce, 139 S. Ct.
at 2568.
    We therefore cannot agree with the dissent, which would
hold that judicial review is unavailable in every case
regarding SENTRI—regardless whether CBP had any valid
reasons to revoke a SENTRI membership in a particular
case—merely because CBP has broad discretion when it
determines whether an individual is ineligible for SENTRI. 4
That is not the law of this Circuit, nor is it consistent with
the purpose of judicial review under the APA. See Newman,
223 F.3d at 943.


4
  The dissent, for example, posits that “the agency would be well within
its rights to rely on the commonsense notion that association with felons
is a red flag.” Diss. Op. at 45. Even if that is correct, the dissent
“conflate[s] reviewability with a particular outcome.” See Trout
Unlimited, 1 F.4th at 759. The mere fact that CBP could have exercised
its broad discretion permissibly with respect to Jajati does not establish
that we lack jurisdiction to review whether CBP failed to comply with
its own regulation or revoked a SENTRI membership on specious
grounds. See, e.g., Perez Perez, 943 F.3d at 863; ASSE, 803 F.3d at 1071;
Pinnacle Armor, 648 F.3d at 720; Newman, 223 F.3d at 943. The
dissent’s hypothetical—that CBP may have revoked Jajati’s membership
due to his association with a felon—does not establish that the agency in
fact relied on the reason the dissent proffers for the agency (which
reasons, to date, CBP has never disclosed to Jajati or any court), nor does
it establish that a court could never determine that CBP had relied on
specious or arbitrary grounds in any case when it deems a person
ineligible for SENTRI.
20           JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


                               2.
    CBP, as well as the dissent, maintain that there is no law
to apply because the criteria are undefined and non-
exhaustive, and there is nothing with which a court can
surmise which factors (or combination of factors) would
suffice to support either approval or denial of a SENTRI
application. Diss. Op. at 32–33, 43–44. To the contrary, the
weighing of non-exhaustive criteria like those in the
SENTRI regulation is squarely within the province of the
judiciary, even if the regulation involves a “flexible standard
that draws considerably on the agency’s expertise and
judgment.” See Trout Unlimited, 1 F.4th at 759; accord
Gonzalez-Caraveo v. Sessions, 882 F.3d 885, 891–92 (9th
Cir. 2018) (holding “six descriptive, though non-exhaustive
factors,” such as “the reason administrative closure is
sought,” alone provided “a ‘sufficiently meaningful
standard’ by which to evaluate” the IJ or BIA’s
administrative closure decisions, because, “[a]lthough some
of the . . . factors . . . may be issues with which an IJ is more
familiar based on his or her experience, [they] are not so
unique to the agency that this Court would be unable to
evaluate them with the assistance of the parties’ briefing”).
    For example, in Newman, we held that the Social
Security Commissioner’s decision to refrain from increasing
a beneficiary’s Supplemental Social Security Income
(“SSI”) benefits was not committed to agency discretion by
law. 223 F.3d at 942–43. The statute directed the
Commissioner to promulgate a rule that enabled him to
increase a person’s benefits so long as he used information
about the beneficiary’s financial status that was “reliable”
and “currently available.” Id. at 939. The Commissioner had
discretion to “determine[]” whether specific information
offered by a beneficiary was indeed reliable and currently
            JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.          21


available. Id. He also had discretion to refrain from
increasing a person’s benefits even if such information
existed. Id. The Commissioner promulgated a rule that
defined the terms “reliable” and “currently available,” but
concluded that “no reliable information exists which is
currently available,” such that the Commissioner would not
increase any benefits under the provision. Id. at 940 (citing
20 C.F.R. § 416.420(c)).
    A recipient whose benefits were not increased despite a
change in financial status challenged the regulation under the
APA. Id. at 940–42. The Commissioner claimed his decision
was committed to agency discretion by law, because
(1) there were no standards by which to define the terms
“reliable” and “currently available,” and (2) even if there
were, no review was available because “even if [he]
determines that such information does exist, he can choose
not to use it.” Id. at 943 (alteration in original).
    We disagreed. Id. We held that the interpretation and
application of the terms “reliable” and “currently available”
did not defy review because the “basic definition and
application of those terms” did not “involve[] a complicated
balancing of a number of factors that are so peculiarly within
the agency’s expertise that jurisdiction is necessarily
defeated.” Id. And as to the agency’s discretion to discount
even reliable and currently available information, we
similarly rejected the claim that such discretion foreclosed
judicial review. Id. Rather, we had jurisdiction under the
APA to review the Commissioner’s determination that no
reliable or currently available information existed. Id.
   Here, as in Newman, we can review CBP’s application
of the criteria, even if CBP can rely on some other,
unenumerated factors when it deems a person ineligible for
22             JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


SENTRI. See id. Similarly, as in Newman—where we held
judicial review was available even though the agency had
discretion to “determine” whether specific information
offered by a beneficiary was reliable and currently
available—the mere fact that CBP has discretion to
“determine” which information satisfies the various criteria
does not establish that we lack jurisdiction to consider
whether CBP applied those criteria on specious grounds. See
id. Indeed, even more so than the “reliable” and “currently
available” criteria in Newman, the interpretation and
application of the eligibility criteria in 8 C.F.R.
§ 235.7(a)(4)(x), such as employment status and criminal
history, are not so “peculiarly within the agency’s expertise
that jurisdiction is necessarily defeated.” 5 See Newman, 223

5
  Federal courts frequently evaluate such criteria in other contexts. For
example, district courts may evaluate the nature of a criminal defendant’s
criminal history when computing his offense level under the Sentencing
Guidelines. See, e.g., U.S.S.G. § 4A1.3; United States v. Henderson, 993
F.2d 187, 189 (9th Cir. 1993) (explaining that the Sentencing Guidelines
“permit[] a sentencing court to consider upward departure when a
defendant’s criminal history category does not adequately reflect the
seriousness of the defendant's past criminal conduct”). So too with
respect to an individual’s employment status when an agency denies his
eligibility for unemployment benefits. See, e.g., N.L.R.B. v. Adrian Belt
Co., 578 F.2d 1304, 1308–09 (9th Cir. 1978) (reviewing for substantial
evidence an agency’s finding that a claimant had retained her
employment status, despite a leave of absence, when the agency denied
the individual’s claim for unemployment benefits). The dissent reasons
that the criteria in Henderson and Adrian Belt were better defined, see
Diss. Op. at 40–42, but the point is that these factors are not so unfamiliar
to the judiciary so as to evade our review. Indeed, the primary example
of a discretionary decision that involved “a complicated balancing of a
number of factors which are peculiarly within [the agency’s] expertise”
came in Heckler, which involved a challenge to the FDA’s decision not
to enforce its drug safety regulations. Heckler, 470 U.S. at 831–33.
Nothing in our decision encroaches on CBP’s ability to choose whether
               JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.                  23


F.3d at 943. Although the criteria are non-exhaustive and
undefined, the criteria are still “descriptive,” see Gonzalez-
Caraveo, 882 F.3d at 892, and “refine the [low-risk]
standard,” see Taslimi, 590 F.3d at 986, by elucidating the
type of information that is relevant to determine which
individuals are “low-risk” so as to qualify for SENTRI.6
Accordingly, we can review whether CBP abused its
discretion, or acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner,
when it weighed those criteria and determined that an
individual was ineligible to participate in SENTRI because
he was not a low-risk border crosser.
    Moreover, because the regulation imposes mandatory
duties on CBP to consider the criteria, we can review
whether the agency failed to consider those criteria and, in
doing so, “fail[ed] to comply with its own regulations.” See
ASSE, 803 F.3d at 1069 (quoting Abdelhamid, 774 F.2d at
1450).
   For example, in Perez Perez, the plaintiff challenged a
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services
(“USCIS”) decision to deny him a U Visa. Perez Perez, 943


to initiate revocation proceedings against an individual SENTRI
member. See Gonzalez-Caraveo, 882 F.3d at 892. Once the agency
chooses to act, however, its subsequent actions are governed by the
standards in the SENTRI regulation, which are refined by the criteria
elucidated in the regulation. See id. at 893; Newman, 223 F.3d at 943.
6
  For this reason, the dissent’s assertion that we cannot review CBP’s
decision because it is “tasked with applying the regulatory standards to
the underlying question of eligibility” is unconvincing. Diss. Op. at 43.
The same was true in Gonzalez-Caraveo, in which we held judicial
review was available because the agency was tasked with applying “six
descriptive, though non-exhaustive factors” when it determined the
underlying question “whether administrative closure [was] appropriate
in a given case.” 882 F.3d at 891–92.
24           JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


F.3d at 856. An alien is eligible for a U Visa if he (1) has
suffered physical or mental abuse as a result of being a
victim of a qualifying crime, (2) possesses information about
the crime, and (3) has been helpful in investigating the
crime. Id. at 862–63 (quoting 8 U.S.C. § 1101(a)(15)(U)(i)).
The U Visa statute establishes application procedures and
requires the agency to “consider any credible evidence
relevant to the petition.” Id. at 863 (quoting 8 U.S.C.
§ 1184(p)(3)–(4)). The statute, however, provides that the
agency “determines” whether an alien has met the eligibility
requirements. Id. The regulation, moreover, gives USCIS
“sole discretion” to weigh evidence and provides that USCIS
has “sole jurisdiction” over U Visa petitions. Id. The plaintiff
argued that USCIS violated the APA in part because it failed
to consider all credible evidence and made an erroneous
factual finding when it denied him a U Visa. Id. at 864–65.
USCIS claimed its decision was committed to agency
discretion by law. Id. at 860.
    We held in Perez Perez that § 701(a)(2) of the APA did
not bar review of the plaintiff’s claim. Id. at 863. We
recognized that a U Visa “determination is discretionary,”
but reasoned that discretion was “rooted in a set of
requirements or standards” that enabled judicial review. Id.
at 863. For example, the statute’s mandate that USCIS
“consider any credible evidence relevant to the petition
provides a meaningful standard by which to review” whether
the agency failed to consider such evidence. Id. at 864
(citation omitted). And we held that we could still review a
claim that the agency made an erroneous factual finding,
even though the regulation gave the agency “sole discretion”
to weigh evidence. Id. at 865 (citing ASSE, 803 F.3d at
1071).
             JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.          25


    Here too, the SENTRI regulations establish mandatory
criteria that CBP must consider when it evaluates whether a
person is “ineligible” for SENTRI. 8 C.F.R.
§§ 235.7(a)(4)(x), 235.7(b). Just as in Perez Perez, where we
held that we could review a claim that agency had “fail[ed]
to consider all credible evidence” as required by the
statute—even though “the determination of what is relevant
evidence and the weight to be given to that evidence” was
within the “sole discretion” of the agency—so too here may
we review whether CBP failed to consider the required the
criteria or abused its discretion when it evaluated those
criteria. See Perez Perez, 943 F.3d at 864. Indeed, as we have
explained, the objective of the program—to identify “low-
risk” border crossers—offers a guidepost for courts to
evaluate whether CBP applied the mandatory criteria on
permissible grounds. See 8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(1)(i); Perez
Perez, 943 F.3d at 863–64; Gonzalez-Caraveo, 882 F.3d at
892.
    Hence, although the criteria in the SENTRI regulation
are non-exhaustive and undefined, CBP’s discretion to
revoke a SENTRI membership is “rooted in a set of
requirements or standards” by which courts can review
whether CBP abused its discretion or acted in an arbitrary or
capricious manner. See Perez Perez, 943 F.3d at 863;
Newman, 223 F.3d at 942–43; Gonzalez-Caraveo, 882 F.3d
at 892.
                              3.
    In arguing to the contrary, the dissent directs us to cases
involving statutes and regulations that provided no criteria
to constrain an agency’s discretion. But those cases illustrate
just how rarely agency action is unreviewable under
§ 701(a)(2).
26            JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


    The dissent relies on Ekimian v. INS, 303 F.3d 1153,
1156–59 (9th Cir. 2002), where a group of aliens sought
review of a BIA decision to refuse to reopen removal
proceedings sua sponte. Diss. Op. at 47. The statute provided
that the BIA “may at any time reopen or reconsider on its
own motion any case in which it has rendered a decision.”
Id. at 1156 (emphasis omitted). The regulation provided that
the BIA could reopen sua sponte “in unique situations where
it would serve the interest of justice.” Id. at 1157 (emphasis
omitted). The only other guidance came from an agency
adjudication in which the BIA explained that the regulation
allowed it to reopen in “exceptional situations.” Id. at 1158.
    We held the BIA’s refusal to reopen proceedings was
unreviewable because there was not “even a discretionary
standard” to apply to determine whether exceptional
circumstances existed. 7 Id. at 1157. Specifically, the relevant
statute and regulation did not state when the BIA could sua
sponte reopen proceedings, and the BIA had never
elucidated “what constitute[s] ‘exceptional situations.’” Id.
at 1158. We explained that the phrase, “‘exceptional
situations,’ without more,” did not provide a meaningful
standard of review. Id. (emphasis added). Only because there
were no criteria—at all—by which we could measure the
BIA’s exercise of discretion did we lack jurisdiction in
Ekimian. Id.; see also Idrees v. Barr, 923 F.3d 539, 542–43
(9th Cir. 2019) (holding the BIA’s decision to refuse to
certify a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel was

7
  We later clarified that we may review BIA decisions denying sua
sponte reopening “for the limited purpose of reviewing the reasoning
behind the decisions for legal or constitutional error” because, in that
instance, there is “law to apply.” Bonilla v. Lynch, 840 F.3d 575, 588
(9th Cir. 2016). Ekimian, then, is limited to the BIA’s determination as
to whether “there were truly exceptional circumstances.” Id.
               JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.                     27


unreviewable because the BIA would certify such claims
only in “exceptional circumstances” and “no other
regulation or statute provide[d] guidance” to determine
“which circumstances are considered to be exceptional”); 8
Diaz-Covarrubias v. Mukasey, 551 F.3d 1114, 1117–19 (9th
Cir. 2009) (holding judicial review was unavailable with
respect to the BIA’s decision to deny a request for
administrative closure where the only standard applied to the
decision was “administrative convenience”).
    In contrast, when the term “extraordinary
circumstances” is elucidated with criteria in a regulation, we
have held that we can review a discretionary determination
under that capacious standard. See, e.g., Husyev, 528 F.3d at
1180–81 (holding a statute that allowed an alien to file a late
asylum application under “extraordinary circumstances”
was not rendered standardless because the “regulations set
out a non-exhaustive list of six potentially qualifying
‘extraordinary circumstances’” that provided “a partial
adjudicative standard in and of itself”).
    Here, in contrast to Ekimian and Idrees, in which the
guidelines “exceptional situations” and “exceptional
circumstances”—without more—had no objective reference
point, the SENTRI regulation offers several mandatory,
objective criteria and standards with which courts are quite

8
 The dissent reasons that in Idrees, there were criteria to guide the BIA’s
decision: namely, that the BIA could reopen “if it determines that the
parties have already been given a fair opportunity . . . regarding the case,
including the opportunity to request oral argument and to submit a brief.”
Diss. Op. at 47–48 (quoting Idrees, 923 F.3d at 542–43). But the
“criteria” the dissent cites had no bearing as to which circumstances were
“exceptional.” Here, by contrast, the SENTRI regulation describes
factors that speak directly to whether an individual is low risk. Cf.
Gonzalez-Caraveo, 882 F.3d at 892.
28             JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


familiar. Those criteria and standards provide “a partial
adjudicative standard in and of [themselves],” and are
therefore sufficient to make CBP’s discretionary decision
subject to judicial review. See Husyev, 528 F.3d at 1181;
Gonzalez-Caraveo, 882 F.3d at 892.
    In sum, our precedent forecloses the dissent’s application
of § 701(a)(2) to this case. The SENTRI regulation, 8 C.F.R.
§ 235.7, provides sufficient “standards” and “requirements”
which enable courts to review whether CBP, in fact,
considered the criteria as required by the regulation, see
Perez Perez, 943 F.3d at 863. The regulation’s objective—
to identify “low-risk” border crossers—also provide a
standard by which we can review whether CBP abused its
discretion, or acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner,
when it interpreted and applied those criteria with respect to
an individual SENTRI member and deemed that person
“ineligible” to participate in SENTRI. See Gonzalez-
Caraveo, 882 F.3d at 892; Newman, 223 F.3d at 943. Hence,
the “strong presumption” in favor of judicial review under
the APA has not been rebutted. 9 See Bowen, 476 U.S. at 670.




9
  The dissent raises the policy concern that our decision will “force the
agency to divulge its reasons for revoking memberships . . . some of
which might pertain to sensitive matters of national security.” Diss. Op.
at 55–56. But such “a weak connection to foreign policy is not enough
to commit an agency action to the agency’s discretion.” ASSE, 803 F.3d
at 1069. Were Congress so concerned with keeping secret the agency’s
reasons for determining eligibility for SENTRI, it would not have
required the agency to provide applicants with “clear and consistent
eligibility guidelines.” 8 U.S.C. § 1365b(k)(3)(E). Moreover, Congress
retains the right to “preclude judicial review” by statute. 5 U.S.C.
§ 701(a)(1).
             JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.           29


                              C.
    Having established the availability of judicial review, we
turn to the standard the district court should apply on
remand. For this standard, we look to § 706 of the APA,
under which we assess whether the revocation of an
individual’s SENTRI membership was “arbitrary,
capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in
accordance with law,” or in violation of a statutory,
procedural, or constitutional requirement. 5 U.S.C. § 706(2).
In making this determination, the district court should
consider whether CBP failed to consider the criteria in 8
C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(4)(x) when it determined Jajati was
ineligible to participate in SENTRI. See Perez Perez, 943
F.3d at 864. The district court should also assess whether
CBP abused its discretion, or acted in an arbitrary and
capricious manner, when it interpreted and applied those
criteria to Jajati in light of the overarching objectives of the
program: to facilitate border crossing for low-risk border
crossers, 8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(1)(i), and to ensure the
program “includes as many participants as practicable
by . . . providing applicants with clear and consistent
eligibility guidelines,” 8 U.S.C. § 1365b(k)(3)(E). See
Newman, 223 F.3d at 943.
    Moreover, the district court should review CBP’s factual
findings under the “substantial evidence” standard. See
ASSE, 803 F.3d at 1072 (“‘[A]s a practical matter, the
arbitrary and capricious standard incorporates the substantial
evidence test,’ and we use that test for review of agency
factfinding in informal proceedings as well.”) (quoting
Ursack Inc. v. Sierra Interagency Black Bear Grp., 639 F.3d
949, 958 n.4 (9th Cir. 2011)); see also McLean v. Morgan,
2020 WL 5094683, at *6–7 (D. Kans. Aug. 28, 2020)
(remanding to the agency to reconsider revocation of a
30          JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


Global Entry membership because substantial evidence did
not support a finding that the plaintiff had multiple
convictions). Substantial evidence review “is generally
confined to a review of the administrative record.” See Perez
Perez, 943 F.3d at 865; see also 5 U.S.C. § 706 (“[T]he court
shall review the whole record or those parts of it cited by a
party . . . .”).
    Finally, in evaluating Jajati’s APA claim, the district
court should “give due deference to the agency’s expertise.”
Perez Perez, 943 F.3d at 865; ASSE, 803 F.3d at 1071
(“[W]e will take into account the [agency’s] reservation and
expertise and accord it the proper deference.”). With this
said, the agency may not “justify its choice on specious
grounds.” Newman, 223 F.3d at 943.
                            IV.
         We hold that § 701(a)(2) of the APA does not bar
judicial review of Jajati’s claim. Hence, we reverse the
district court’s order which granted CBP’s motion to dismiss
for lack of subject matter jurisdiction. We remand with
instructions that the district court consider Jajati’s APA
claim on the merits in the first instance.
     REVERSED AND REMANDED.
             JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.              31


VANDYKE, Circuit Judge, dissenting:

    Not every enabling statute or regulation provides a
“meaningful standard against which to judge the agency’s
exercise of discretion.” Spencer Enterprises, Inc v. United
States, 345 F.3d 683, 688 (9th Cir. 2003) (quoting Heckler v.
Chaney, 470 U.S. 821, 830 (1985)). Courts should not
assume, as the majority does today, that the mere existence
of criteria an agency must consider before acting definitively
answers the question of whether there is “law to apply” on
review, id., because applying such criteria often requires
“complicated balancing” that is “peculiarly within the
agency’s expertise.” Newman v. Apfel, 223 F.3d 937, 943
(9th Cir. 2000). Even where an agency is required by law to
consider certain criteria before acting, those standards might
very well be all bark and no bite, leaving the decision
“committed to agency discretion by law.” 5 U.S.C.
§ 701(a)(2).
    This case demonstrates the truth of that proposition.
SENTRI’s enabling regulations require United States
Customs and Border Protection to consider nine listed
criteria, see 8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(4)(x), when determining
whether a SENTRI applicant is sufficiently “low risk” to
qualify for the privilege of expedited screening at the United
States–Mexico border, id. § 235.7(a)(1)(i). 1 The majority
concludes that because these criteria are “mandatory” and
“objective,” they are “sufficient to make CBP’s discretionary
decision subject to judicial review.”
    I disagree both with the majority’s characterization of the
criteria and with its conclusion that they provide a

1
 Like TSA precheck, which travelers are perhaps more familiar with,
SENTRI membership is a privilege, not a right.
32           JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


meaningful standard against which to judge the agency’s
revocation decisions. No matter whether the criteria are
“mandatory” (they are, but they aren’t exhaustive) or
“objective” (they aren’t), they ultimately provide “no law to
apply” on review for several reasons. First, the criteria are
neither meaningfully defined nor self-evident. Second, the
regulations do not indicate the “right” or “wrong” way to
apply each factor when assessing an applicant’s risk. And
third, there is no guidance as to how to weigh the factors
against one another or what combination of factors might
suffice to establish eligibility.
    Because the criteria do not constrain the agency’s
discretion, they do not meaningfully facilitate judicial
review. How can a reviewing court grade the agency’s
papers when the agency’s enabling regulations don’t provide
an answer key? It can’t. What will inevitably happen here
is what always happens when courts step in to “judge” the
executive branch’s highly discretionary decisions: those
decisions end up being mostly governed by the judges’—not
the executive branch officials’—discretion.
     Even if the regulation’s criteria did provide justiciable
guidance, the majority faces another problem. Because there
is no indication the listed criteria are exhaustive, CBP
remains free to consider an infinite number of other,
unenumerated factors when making its eligibility
determinations. So even if a court were to consider how the
agency applied each of the listed criteria to Jajati’s case, it
would be no closer to discovering whether the CBP abused
its discretion by revoking his SENTRI membership.
    Given the nebulous, incomplete nature of the listed
criteria, I cannot help but conclude that SENTRI eligibility
is exactly the kind of discretionary policy decision insulated
            JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.           33


from judicial review by § 701(a)(2) of the APA. The
majority’s contrary conclusion further “devalues the
separation of powers” and invites judicial henpecking of the
agency’s countless, discretionary, and national security-
laden decisions about who gets a fast pass across our
hopelessly busy Southern border—a topic about which
courts can claim no particular expertise. Perez Perez v. Wolf,
943 F.3d 853, 868 (9th Cir. 2019) (Callahan, J., dissenting).
    Because SENTRI eligibility determinations are quite
sensibly “committed to agency discretion by law,” 5 U.S.C.
§ 701(a)(2), I respectfully dissent.
                              I.
    The majority begins its analysis by defending a
proposition that neither the district court nor any of the
parties seem to contest: the “mere fact that a statute contains
discretionary language does not make agency action
unreviewable.” Beno v. Shalala, 30 F.3d 1057, 1066 (9th
Cir. 1994). I agree with that uncontroversial and well-settled
reading of the APA. As the Supreme Court has recognized,
it cannot be the case that every discretionary act is
“committed to agency discretion by law” because the APA
itself contemplates judicial review of agency action for
“abuse of discretion.” See Heckler, 470 U.S. at 829 (quoting
5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A). Instead, as the majority correctly
notes, the proper test is whether the relevant statutes and
regulations “are drawn in such broad terms that in a given
case there is no law to apply, thereby leaving the court with
no meaningful standard against which to judge the agency’s
exercise of discretion.” Pinnacle Armor, Inc. v. United
States, 648 F.3d 708, 719 (9th Cir. 2011).
    As this court is prone to do, however, the majority errs
by so overstating the stringency of the standard as to render
34             JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


“th[e] exception without import or content.”               Trout
Unlimited v. Pirzadeh, 1 F.4th 738, 761 (9th Cir. 2021)
(Bress, J., dissenting). For one thing, while I agree that the
existence of discretionary language is not itself dispositive,
such language “certainly places additional weight on that
side of the scale.” City & County of San Francisco v. U.S.
Dep’t of Transp., 796 F.3d 993, 1003 (9th Cir. 2015). Indeed,
the SENTRI regulations are “peppered with the classic
language of discretion.” Id. at 1002. 2 And while it is
certainly true that § 701(a)(2) is read “quite narrowly” and
that courts characterize its application as “rare,” Perez Perez,
943 F.3d at 860, “rare” does not mean “impossible.”
Unsurprisingly, both the Supreme Court and this court have
applied the § 701(a)(2) exception with some regularity to
insulate discretionary agency action from judicial review.
See Pirzadeh, 1 F.4th at 761 (Bress, J., dissenting)
(collecting a long string cite of cases).
    For further support, the majority also invokes
Department of Commerce v. New York, 139 S. Ct. 2551
(2019), in which the Supreme Court explained that “the
reasoned explanation requirement of administrative law” “is
meant to ensure that agencies offer genuine justification for
important decisions” that “can be scrutinized by courts and


2
  See 8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(4)(x) (“An application may be denied in the
discretion of the district director having jurisdiction over the POE where
the applicant requests access.”); id. (“There is no appeal from the
denial.”); id. § 235.7(b) (“A PORTPASS program participant … who is
otherwise determined by an immigration officer to be … ineligible to
participate in PORTPASS, may have the PORTPASS access revoked the
discretion of the district director or the chief patrol agent.”); id.
§ 235.7(c) (“Nothing in this section is intended to create any right …
enforceable in law or equity by a party against the [agency].”) (emphasis
added throughout).
               JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.                  35


the interested public.” Id. at 2575–76. But applying that
principle here to conclude that the SENTRI regulations are
amenable to judicial review begs the question.             In
Department of Commerce, the Supreme Court invoked “the
reasoned explanation requirement of administrative law”
only after it had rejected the notion that the challenged
agency action—“[t]he taking of the census”—was
“committed to agency discretion.” Id. at 2568. The
majority’s suggestion that every agency decision must be
conducive to “scrutin[y] by courts and the interested public”
is fundamentally inconsistent with the APA’s recognition
that some actions are “committed to agency discretion by
law.” 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A). 3
    But the majority’s most serious errors stem from its
heavy reliance on 8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(4)(x), which provides
that an applicant’s “[1] admissibility to the United States and

3
  The majority’s policy concern that SENTRI memberships might be
revoked solely because “a CBP agent has personal animosity toward the
SENTRI member” is similarly circular. It cannot be the case that we
have jurisdiction to review every potential abuse of discretion because
the potential for unreviewed abuses of discretion arises every time a
decision is committed to agency discretion by law. The majority’s
jurisdictional rule essentially boils down to “bad things might happen if
courts can’t intervene.” But that approach is inconsistent with our role
as courts of limited jurisdiction. If the majority’s approach to 5 U.S.C.
§ 706(2)(A) wins out, then nothing will ever be committed to agency
discretion by law, and we will always have jurisdiction. Courts “do not,
or should not, sally forth each day looking for wrongs to right.” United
States v. Sineneng-Smith, 590 U.S. 371, 376 (2020). Nor are we “a small
group of fortunately situated people with a roving commission to second-
guess Congress … concerning what is best for the country.” William H.
Rehnquist, The Notion of a Living Constitution, 54 TEX. L. REV. 693,
698 (1976). If, as here, a decision is committed to agency discretion by
law, we ought to leave it at that, even if agency decisionmakers aren’t
perfect. We certainly aren’t.
36           JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


documentation so evidencing, [2] criminal history and/or
evidence of criminality, [3] purpose of travel,
[4] employment, [5] residency, [6] prior immigration
history, [7] possession of current driver’s license, [8] vehicle
insurance and registration, and [9] vehicle inspection” “will
be considered in the decision to approve or deny the
application” (emphasis added). The majority makes a series
of related errors regarding these criteria, all of which
undermine its contention that the SENTRI regulations
provide “law to apply” on review.
    First, citing Perez Perez, the majority repeatedly implies
that a discretionary determination is per se reviewable
whenever it is “rooted in a set of requirements or standards.”
943 F.3d at 863. But Perez Perez does not stand for that far-
reaching proposition, and our caselaw elsewhere gives no
indication that the mere presence of statutory or regulatory
criteria, standing alone, is somehow a dispositive answer to
the question of reviewability. Instead, as Perez Perez itself
makes clear, the question remains whether the requirements
or standards, if they exist, meaningfully constrain the
agency’s discretion to act, thus “furnish[ing] meaningful
standards” on review. Id. at 862.
    The connection between meaningful constraint and
meaningful review is entirely intuitive. To effectively
review agency action for abuse of discretion, a court must be
able to avail itself of some discernible standard that imposes
a limitation on the agency’s ability to act. No discernible
standard, no real constraint. No real constraint, no basis to
declare agency actions unlawful. In other words, if the
regulatory standards imposed on an agency do not provide
the court with any insight into what an agency should have
done (or should have done differently), then those standards
are essentially a paper tiger. They offer a reviewing court
              JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.                  37


nothing useful in its endeavor to decide whether the agency
acted arbitrarily, unlawfully, or in a manner that abused its
discretion. Under such circumstances, who are we to
intervene, and even assuming we do, what legal basis do we
have to conclude the agency acted unlawfully?
     For these reasons, the mere fact that certain criteria are
listed, without more, is insufficient. 4 Those criteria must
meaningfully constrain the agency’s discretion to provide
“law to apply” on review.
                                  II.
    Perhaps sensing this truth, the majority also contends
that the factors listed in 8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(4)(x) “offer[]
several mandatory, objective criteria” that the agency must
consider when making an ultimate determination as to
whether an applicant is sufficiently “low-risk” to qualify for
SENTRI membership. See 8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(1)(i). In the
majority’s view, the combination of these criteria with the
regulatory objective to facilitate “low-risk” crossings
provides a meaningful standard that will facilitate judicial
review. I disagree both with the majority’s characterization
of the criteria as “mandatory” and “objective,” and with its


4
  For anyone doubting the notion that an agency may be required to
consider a statutory or regulatory standard that nevertheless fails to
meaningfully constrain its discretion, consider a hypothetical statute
providing that “when acquiring new buildings, the General Services
Administration shall consider the building’s architectural style.” Would
such a statute authorize judges to police the federal government’s well-
known, much-maligned penchant for brutalist architecture that is
intentionally, soul-crushingly ugly? See Theodore Dalrymple, The
Architect as Totalitarian, City Journal (Nov. 19, 2009),
https://www.city-journal.org/article/the-architect-as-totalitarian.  As
much as I might wish otherwise: of course not.
38           JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


conclusion that these criteria provide a meaningful standard
enabling judicial review.
                              A.
    First, consider the majority’s characterization of the
criteria as “objective.”        That description adequately
describes some of the listed factors, including, for example,
“admissibility to the United States,” “possession of [a]
current driver’s license,” “vehicle insurance and
registration,” and “vehicle inspection.” These checkbox
criteria require little to no exercise of discretion or analysis
from the agency. An applicant’s inadmissibility to the
United States obviously means that he should not receive an
expedited path across the border. Likewise, an individual
who lacks a valid license, insurance, registration, and
inspection shouldn’t be driving a vehicle at all, let alone
driving one across the border. These few checkbox criteria
may provide a brightline and arguably justiciable basis to
deny someone membership in the SENTRI program. But the
fact that just these baseline criteria are satisfied cannot
provide a justiciable basis to insist that they must be given
such membership.
    In short, these checkbox criteria will always matter little
in any case like this where someone like Jajati is
complaining about his denial in the program. If they aren’t
met, then obviously the agency didn’t abuse its discretion in
denying membership. If they are met, that likewise means
pretty much nothing—those basic criteria are met by the
overwhelming majority of all the people who drive across
the southern border every day, most of whom are not in the
SENTRI program.
   All the other listed criteria that are not effectively
checkboxes cannot be characterized as “objective” in any
              JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.                  39


meaningful sense, including an applicant’s “purpose of
travel,” “employment,” “residency,” and “criminal history.”
These criteria are not “objective” because the proper way to
apply them to the overarching assessment of risk is not
readily apparent, nor does Jajati “point to any statutory,
regulatory, or caselaw definition” that might assist a
reviewing court in making sense of them. Ekimian v. I.N.S.,
303 F.3d 1153, 1159 (9th Cir. 2002). 5
    How, for example, should the agency assess the purpose
of an applicant’s travel? Are beachgoers bound for Baja less
risky than truckers transporting goods from Tijuana? If so,
why? What regulatory justification could the court possibly
provide for that conclusion?
    And what about employment? As far as I can see,
nothing in the SENTRI regulations constrains the agency
from deciding that a given profession is inherently riskier
than another, and thus the mere fact that “employment” is a
consideration does not meaningfully facilitate judicial
review.
    Similar examples could be drawn up for “residency” and
“criminal history” ad nauseum. The point is that the listed
criteria are not “objective” because they are not
meaningfully defined, and how the agency should go about
applying them is thus entirely unclear.
    The majority takes a different view, asserting that
assessing “criteria like those in the SENTRI regulation is
squarely within the province of the judiciary.” But saying so



5
 Even the majority is forced to repeatedly acknowledge that the criteria
are “undefined.”
40           JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


does not make it so, and the cases it cites undermine that
contention instead of supporting it.
    The majority first cites United States v. Henderson for
the proposition that courts regularly consider the
“seriousness of the defendant’s past criminal conduct” when
“consider[ing] upward departure.” 993 F.2d 187, 189 (9th
Cir. 1993). While that’s true, there are at least three flaws
with the suggested analogy. First, it “is a longstanding
tradition in American law” that sentencing courts “exercise
a wide discretion in the sources and types of evidence used
to craft appropriate sentences.” Concepcion v. United States,
597 U.S. 481, 486 (2022) (emphasis added, citations and
internal quotation marks omitted). If anything, the “wide
discretion” afforded courts in assessing criminal history
when deciding a sentence underscores the discretion
afforded the agency here. Second, it is not all apparent that
a court deciding an appropriate sentence, which presumably
accounts not only for a defendant’s risk of recidivism, but
also for his culpability and society’s retributive interests, is
performing a function that is even remotely analogous to the
agency’s assessment of a SENTRI applicant’s risk.
    Third, and most importantly, even if the analogy were
sound, the sentencing guidelines offer courts considerably
more guidance regarding how to assess a defendant’s
criminal history than 8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(4)(x)’s passing
reference to “criminal history” does.       See U.S.S.G.
§ 4A1.3(a)(2)(A)–(E). Indeed, the guidelines list specific
examples—including “foreign and tribal convictions,”
“prior similar misconduct established by a civil
adjudication,” and “conduct not resulting in a criminal
conviction”—justifying upward departure.          See id.
Unsurprisingly, Henderson relies on comparison to these
examples—not its vague appraisal of the severity of the
                JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.                       41


appellant’s “criminal history” more generally—to conclude
that an upward departure from the guidelines was
unjustified. See 993 F.2d at 189. 8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(4)(x)
includes no framework to the sentencing guidelines that
would afford a reviewing court any explanation of what the
SENTRI guidelines mean by “criminal history,”
“employment,” or “purpose of travel.”
    The majority’s second case, NLRB v. Adrian Belt Co.,
578 F.2d 1304 (9th Cir. 1978), is no more compelling than
the first. In Adrian Belt, the court affirmed the Labor
Board’s conclusion that an employee who had taken a leave
of absence was still properly classified as an employee of the
defendant company at the time of a union election despite
the leave. Id. at 1307–08. The majority cites this case as
evidence that courts are well acquainted with the task of
analyzing an employee’s employment status. While that
may very well be true, it is ultimately irrelevant. This court’s
ability to determine whether people are employed says
nothing about its ability to assess how their employment
might affect the risks they pose when crossing the southern
border, which is obviously a very different question. 6


6
  As should be sufficiently clear from the analysis above, my point is not
just that, in the majority’s words, “the criteria in Henderson and Adrian
Belt were better defined.” While that is true, my point is that those cases
employ the “criminal history” and “employment” standards in much
more direct—and more traditionally judicial—ways. This court’s ability
to assess criminal history when crafting a criminal sentence or to assess
the mere fact of employment status when deciding a labor dispute says
nothing about its ability to assess how those factors affect the risk a
traveler poses at the border. It is this latter task that courts face in a case
like this one. For that reason, neither Henderson nor Adrian Belt get the
majority any closer to proving that courts have competency to deal with
the criteria listed in 8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(4)(x) in a way that would render
42            JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


    Many of the majority’s other attempts to cite caselaw in
its defense fall victim to the same fundamental error. See
Gonazlez-Caraveo v. Sessions, 882 F.3d 885, 891–92 (9th
Cir. 2018) (holding that the “administrative closure”
standard was amenable to judicial review because the BIA
had enumerated “six descriptive, though non-exhaustive
factors,” but only because those factors were “not so unique
to the agency that this Court would be unable to evaluate
them”).
    Two particularly good examples are Husyev v. Mukasey,
528 F.3d 1172 (9th Cir. 2008), and Taslimi v. Holder, 590
F.3d 981 (9th Cir. 2010), both of which concern
“extraordinary circumstances relating to the delay in filing
[an asylum] application,” see 8 U.S.C. § 1158(a)(2)(D). In
Husyev and Taslimi, the court concluded that the statutory
“extraordinary circumstances” standard was amenable to
judicial review notwithstanding its breadth for two reasons.
First, the accompanying “regulations set out a non-
exhaustive list of six potentially qualifying ‘extraordinary
circumstances.’” Husyev, 528 F.3d at 1181 (citing 8 C.F.R.
§ 1208.4(a)(5)(i)–(vi)). Second, an adjudicator was required
to consider specific facts, including “an applicant’s delayed
awareness of changed circumstances,” when deciding
whether extraordinary circumstances existed. Taslimi, 590
F.3d at 986 (citing 8 C.F.R. § 208.4(a)(4)(ii)).
    The majority contends that the regulatory criteria in 8
C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(4)(x) inform CBP’s risk-based eligibility
assessment in much the same way as the regulations
expounding on “extraordinary circumstances,” providing “a
partial adjudicative standard in and of itself.” Husyev, 590

them not “peculiarly within the agency’s expertise.” Newman, 223 F.3d
at 943.
             JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.          43


F.3d at 1181. But again, the suggested analogy does not
stand up to scrutiny. As explained above, in Husyev and
Taslimi, the court considered a statutory phrase—
“extraordinary circumstances”—against the backdrop of an
extensive regulatory explanation of what that phrase meant.
Thus, even though every conceivable “extraordinary
circumstance” was not listed in the regulation, the court still
had the benefit of fairly detailed guidance about the kind of
circumstances that might fairly be considered extraordinary.
    Contrast that with the regulations at issue here. While
8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(4)(x) lists some factors the agency must
account for when assessing the risk posed by an applicant, it
nowhere explains what affect those factors—particularly
“purpose of travel,” “employment,” “residency,” and
“criminal history”—are supposed to have on the outcome.
And unlike the task presented in cases like Husyev, Taslimi,
and Adrian Belt, which is simply to determine whether a
statutory or regulatory standard is met, the agency here is
tasked with applying the regulatory standards to the
underlying question of eligibility. Because the regulations
fail to provide CBP with any meaningful guidance about
how to do so, the relevant standards are nowhere near as
“objective”—or helpful—as the majority suggests.
                              B.
    Next, consider the majority’s reliance on the
“mandatory” nature of the criteria listed in 8 C.F.R.
§ 235.7(a)(4)(x). In the majority’s view, the fact that the
agency has stated these criteria “will be considered in the
decision” means that it has self-imposed “a mandatory duty
that constrains whatever discretion” it “might otherwise
have possessed.” Nat’l Res. Def. Council, Inc. v. Perry, 940
F.3d 1072, 1078–79 (9th Cir. 2019). But that idea cannot be
44             JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


squared with the fact that the listed criteria are non-
exhaustive. The regulation’s command that certain criteria
“will be considered” requires only what its plain terms
suggest: the agency must consider the listed criteria when
making an eligibility determination. As the majority seems
to recognize, that command does not limit the agency’s
consideration to only those criteria on the list. Nor does that
command dictate how much weight to give each
“mandatory” factor.        Thus, notwithstanding 8 C.F.R.
§ 235.7(a)(4)(x), the agency remains free to consider the
entire universe of factors that are in its judgment relevant to
assessing the risk posed by an applicant, and weigh each
factor it considers however the agency wishes.
    This case provides a ready example of other, inherently
reasonable criteria that the agency might in its discretion
choose to consider. Though Jajati asserts he has no criminal
history of his own, he suspects that the agency originally
revoked his SENTRI membership because his estranged ex-
wife has a criminal history of smuggling drugs across the
United States–Mexico border. Jajati assigns error to the
agency on that basis, but I fail to see how such reasoning is
necessarily erroneous or what source of law we would
invoke on review to say so. 7



7
  The majority casts this reasoning as “conflat[ing] reviewability with a
particular outcome.” Not only is that not true, but it also misses the point
of the hypothetical. I do not speculate as to CBP’s motives to pass on
the underlying merits of the dispute or to assert with any certainty why
the agency decided to revoke Jajati’s SENTRI membership. Indeed, for
the reasons explained in this opinion, I believe this court has no
jurisdiction to do so. Instead, the hypothetical demonstrates that CBP
might plausibly rely on an unlisted factor as the driving force for its
decision—and how neither the enabling statute nor the SENTRI
               JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.                   45


    Instead, it seems to me that the agency would be well
within its rights to rely on the commonsense notion that
association with felons is a red flag. 8 The relevance of that
risk is only heightened where the felony involved—drug
smuggling across an international border—is so closely
related to the privilege sought: expedited screening across an
international border. Nothing in the regulations constrains
the agency’s ability to reason in this manner, and I cannot
imagine how this court could ever conclude such reasoning
was arbitrary and capricious without imposing its own ivory
tower notions of fairness upon the agency’s efforts to
administer the SENTRI program. The regulations relied on
by the majority certainly do not provide us with any basis to
do so.
   The majority concludes that the mere existence of the
mandatory criteria means that at the very least, a reviewing


regulations provide this court with any tools with which to review its
decision to do so.
8
  This court regularly engages in a similar kind of reasoning when it
upholds conditions of supervised release preventing convicted criminals
from associating with known felons. E.g., United States v. King, 608
F.3d 1122, 1128 (9th Cir. 2010). Indeed, we have so thoroughly
acknowledged the severity of that risk as to suggest that conditions of
supervised release can sometimes prohibit association with a so-called
“life partner.” See United States v. Napulou, 593 F.3d 1041, 1047 (9th
Cir. 2010) (“A condition of supervised release that prohibits association
with convicted felons without the permission of a probation officer is a
standard condition …. When, however, such a condition goes beyond
the standard prohibition on contact with convicted felons, and singles out
a person with whom the individual on supervised release has an intimate
relationship, the sentencing court must undertake an individualized
review of that person and the relationship at issue, and must provide a
justification for the imposition of such an intrusive prohibitory
condition.”) (internal citations omitted).
46           JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


court can test the agency’s fidelity to the self-imposed
mandatory criteria. But where, as here, the agency remains
free to consider any potentially relevant factor and assign
whatever weight it wants to any factor, and the regulation
provides no instruction about which combination of factors
is potentially dispositive, the agency is well within its
discretion to (as it apparently has done here) downplay the
importance of the listed criteria and rely predominantly on
unlisted criteria when making its risk-based eligibility
determination.
    Because the agency’s decision can rightfully rest in
significant part on unlisted criteria, I do not see the utility in
reviewing “whether CBP failed to consider the required
criteria.” Nor do I see how it would differ meaningfully
from reviewing whether the agency “abused its discretion
when it evaluated those criteria.” All of this is especially
true given the agency is under no obligation to share its
reasoning with individuals whose SENTRI memberships are
revoked. See 8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(4)(x) (requiring only
notice of, not the reasons for, revocation).
    At bottom, once it has been established that 8 C.F.R.
§ 235.7(a)(4)(x) does not impose any practical restriction on
the agency’s essentially unlimited ability to consider
whatever factors it deems relevant to eligibility, and weigh
those factors however it wants, it is hard to understand how
the stipulation that some listed criteria “will be considered”
imposes any meaningful constraint on the agency’s
discretion. Thus, while I agree with the majority that the
criteria listed in 8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(4)(x) are mandatory, I
do not see how that controls the question of whether there is
a “meaningful standard against which to judge the agency’s
exercise of discretion.” Spencer Enterprises 345 F.3d at 688.
            JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.          47


                             C.
    For the reasons explained above, I am deeply skeptical
of the majority’s conclusions that the SENTRI regulations
provide “mandatory, objective criteria” that meaningfully
facilitate review. The listed criteria are not “objective”
because they are not defined, and even though they are
“mandatory,” they are not exhaustive. Taken together, these
facts mean the regulations fail to provide any objective
reference point for the type of applicant that is sufficiently
“low-risk” to be eligible for SENTRI membership.
    This court has held time and again that where an enabling
statute or regulation fails to meaningfully define the key
standard against which agency action should be judged, the
decision involved is “committed to agency discretion by
law.” 5 U.S.C. § 701(a)(2). Consider, for example, Ekimian
v. I.N.S., in which the court again faced the question of
whether an “exceptional circumstances” standard provided a
meaningful basis for review. 303 F.3d at 1158–59. Unlike
the plaintiffs in Husyev and Taslimi, cases which also
involved “exceptional circumstances,” the plaintiffs in
Ekimian “[could] not point to any statutory, regulatory, or
caselaw definition of ‘exceptional circumstances’ applicable
to the [agency’s] … power under” the relevant regulations.
Id. at 1159. Thus, the court concluded it could “not discover
a sufficient meaningful standard against which to judge the
[agency’s] decision.” Id.
    Relatedly, in Idrees v. Barr, the court considered whether
the BIA’s decisions regarding whether to certify an
ineffective assistance of counsel claim were unreviewable.
923 F.3d 539, 542 (2019). The relevant regulation provided
that the BIA “in its discretion may review any such case by
certification … if it determines that the parties have already
48           JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


been given a fair opportunity … regarding the case,
including the opportunity to request oral argument and to
submit a brief.” Id. The BIA later clarified that it would
only certify such claims under “exceptional circumstances.”
Id. at 542–43.
    Despite regulatory criteria that are at least as specific as
the criteria the majority relies upon here—“fair opportunity,”
“opportunity to request oral argument,” “opportunity … to
submit a brief,” and “exceptional circumstances”—the
Idrees court concluded that “[t]he regulation contain[ed] no
standard for how the agency should exercise its discretion.”
Id. at 542. And because (1) “no other regulation or statute
provide[d] guidance on th[e] issue,” and (2) the BIA “ha[d]
not elaborated on which circumstances are considered to be
exceptional,” the issue was “committed to agency
discretion.” Id. at 542–43. The court has come to similar
conclusions outside the context of immigration. See, e.g.,
Hyatt v. Office of Mgmt. & Budget, 908 F.3d 1165, 1174 (9th
Cir. 2018) (concluding that an agency’s discretionary
decision to “take appropriate remedial action … only if
necessary” “is beyond judicial review” because “[t]here is
no express standard … to guide the OMB in determining
whether any particular remedy is either ‘appropriate’ or
‘necessary’”).
    The majority criticizes the analogy to Idrees, reasoning
that “the ‘criteria’ the dissent cites had no bearing as to which
circumstances were ‘exceptional.’” But that’s exactly my
point. Just like the SENTRI regulations, the regulations at
issue in Idrees contained language that superficially
appeared to guide the agency’s decision-making. But also
just like here, the standards involved were ultimately too
unconstrained to be practically meaningful. Though both
here and in Idrees each agency has somewhat narrowed the
              JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.                  49


inquiry by committing itself to a certain standard—
“exceptional circumstances” in Idrees and “low-risk” here—
neither adequately defined the standard such that its
discretion was actually constrained, and neither explained
what combination of criteria might allow an applicant to
meet the burden imposed by the standard. Therefore, as in
Idrees, the majority here should have concluded that the
SENTRI regulations committed the question of eligibility to
CBP as a matter of law. 9
    The majority counters these analogies to Ekimian,
Idrees, and Hyatt by making its own analogies to prior panel
precedent, including this court’s decisions in Keating v.
F.A.A., 610 F.2d 611 (9th Cir. 1979), and City of Los Angeles
v. United States Department of Commerce, 307 F.3d 859 (9th
Cir. 2002). Presumably, the majority selected those cases
because they represent the far outer limit of what this court
has considered amenable to judicial review in the past. In
Keating and City of Los Angeles, the court held that the terms
“public interest” and “feasible,” without more, were
sufficiently specific to enable judicial review. See 610 F.2d
at 612; see also 307 F.3d at 869. In my view, these cases are
uniquely good examples of this court’s disappointing
willingness to micromanage the discretionary affairs of
administrative agencies.
    From these far-reaching displays of judicial
aggrandizement, the majority reasons that the SENTRI
statute’s use of the term “low-risk” must be amenable to
judicial review because it is more specific than the “public

9
  The majority’s attempts to distinguish Ekimian and Idrees by
characterizing the criteria in the regulation here as “mandatory” and
“objective.” For the reasons already explained, that characterization is
unconvincing.
50           JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


interest” or “feasible” standards we have previously
considered. Moreover, it implies that we are bound to hold
as much because Keating and City of Los Angeles are prior
panel precedent. But while Miller v. Gammie, 893 F.3d 889
(9th Cir. 2003) (en banc) binds us to the holdings that 42
U.S.C. § 1421(c) (Keating) and 13 U.S.C. § 195 (City of Los
Angeles) are not “committed to agency discretion,” it does
not doom us to repeat the same wrong reasoning relied on in
those cases or to extend that reasoning by analogy to every
other vaguely worded statute or regulation on the books.
Instead, we must decide whether a law contains “meaningful
standards” of review as we always do under these
circumstances, by reviewing the specific statutory or
regulatory language at issue in its context and determining
whether it provides “law to apply.” See Perez Perez, 943
F.3d at 861–62 (collecting cases).
    In addition to misstating the inquiry, the majority’s
theory of how prior panel precedent should be applied to this
case also proves too much. If every statutory or regulatory
standard that is at least as or more specific than “public
interest” or “feasible” is automatically susceptible to judicial
review, then the majority would be forced to conclude that
this court’s decisions in Ekimian, Idrees, and Hyatt were
wrongly decided. After all, it is difficult to see how the
standards at issue in those cases—“exceptional
circumstances” and “if necessary”—are any less specific
than “public interest” or “feasible.”
    To be sure, the majority resists this conclusion. In its
view, Ekimian’s and Idrees’s use of the term “exceptional
circumstances” provides “no criteria” to apply. Huh? While
I actually agree with that characterization for the reasons
explained above, it is extremely difficult for me to see how
the majority gets there given its prior endorsement of
             JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.           51


Keating and City of Los Angeles. Discerning how the terms
“public interest” and “feasible” provide law to apply while
the term “exceptional circumstances” does not is beyond my
capacity for judicial hair-splitting. In my view, what is in the
public interest, what is feasible, and what circumstances are
exceptional are all equally broad, discretionary inquiries,
and all three seem to fit well within that “certain categor[y]
of administrative decisions that courts traditionally have
regarded as ‘committed to agency discretion.’” Dep’t of
Commerce, 139 S. Ct. at 2568 (quoting Weyerhaeuser Co. v.
U.S. Fish & Wildlife Serv., 139 S. Ct. 361, 370 (2018)).
Rather than admitting our court has overstepped in the past,
the majority amplifies these past errors by unnecessarily
extending them. And worse, instead of admitting our
caselaw is hopelessly irreconcilable, it pretends that this
tangled web of precedents is somehow coherent and self-
evidencing. Count me as unconvinced.
                              D.
    Finally, even if one could accurately characterize the
criteria listed in 8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a) as “objective” and
“mandatory,” the majority’s position fails to account for this
court’s prior recognition that “agency enforcement decisions
are generally not suitable for judicial review” when they
“involve[] a complicated balancing of a number of factors
which are peculiarly within its expertise.” City and County
of San Francisco, 796 F.3d at 1001–02. The kinds of factors
that are usually considered to be “peculiarly within an
agency’s expertise” are “the prioritization of agency
resources, likelihood of success in fulfilling the agency’s
statutory mandate, and compatibility with ‘the agency’s
overall policies.’” Newman, 223 F.3d at 943 (quoting
Chaney, 470 U.S. at 831) (cleaned up).
52            JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


    Each of these factors favors a finding of unreviewable
agency discretion here. In 2023, CBP reported that over 235
million travelers crossed a land border into the United
States. 10 The record reflects that wait times at the San Ysidro
border crossing—the busiest land port of entry in the
Western Hemisphere 11—have historically been as high as
five or six hours. As anyone who has ever stood in an airport
security line knows, not everyone can qualify for expedited
screening. (If everyone’s special, nobody is.) Given the
great mass of people seeking to legally and illegally cross
our southern border and the national security consequences
of letting the wrong people slip by, I cannot think of a
decision more naturally suited to the exercise of the agency’s
discretion than how it will go about prioritizing its limited
resources to maximize security along our fraught southern
border. The decision to expedite the screening of some
travelers and pay closer attention to others falls squarely
within the contours of that discretionary endeavor.
    But setting aside the traditional reasons such decisions
have been left to the agency’s discretion, even the criteria
that are explicitly enumerated in 8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a) are the
kind of criteria that are “peculiarly within the agency’s
expertise.” Newman, 223 F.3d at 943 (cleaned up). As
explained above, federal judges have little to no expertise in
assessing how a SENTRI applicant’s “purpose of travel,”

10
    United States Customs and Border Protection, Traveler and
Conveyance Statistics (last updated Mar. 22, 2024), available at
https://www.cbp.gov/newsroom/stats/
travel.
11
  United States General Services Administration, San Ysidro Land Port
of Entry (last updated Dec. 8, 2023), https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/gsa-
regions/region-9-pacific-rim/land-ports-of-entry/san-ysidro-land-port-
of-entry.
               JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.                     53


“employment,” “criminal history,” or “residency” affect the
risk they pose when crossing the southern border. 12
    Border patrol agents, by contrast, are the group of federal
officers most directly tasked with enforcing this country’s
immigration laws. If anyone has expertise about how a
border crosser’s personal characteristics might affect the risk
they pose, it is them. For this reason, it should come as no
surprise that the SENTRI program’s enabling statute vests
the Department of Homeland Security—and not this court—
with the task of “establish[ing] an international registered
traveler program” and deciding the “criteria for
participation.” 8 U.S.C. § 1365b(k)(3)(A). Today’s decision
interferes with that sensible delegation of discretion and will
only complicate the already-difficult task CBP faces at the
United States–Mexico border.
                                    E.
   Having established the myriad reasons why SENTRI’s
enabling regulations do not provide a “meaningful standard


12
  The majority relies on Newman v. Apfel to support its conclusion to
the contrary. But the regulatory criteria considered in Newman—
whether relevant information was “currently available” and “reliable”—
are readily distinguishable from the disputed criteria here. 223 F.3d at
939.       Unlike the multi-pronged risk analysis that 8 C.F.R.
§ 235.7(a)(4)(x) requires of the agency, courts consider the “current
availability” and “reliability” of information all the time. District courts
must do so any time they are tasked as a factfinder. And this court
reviews such determinations any time it considers whether substantial
evidence supports a factfinder’s conclusion. Indeed, one could
convincingly argue that deciding the “current availability” and
“reliability” of facts are among the key judicial functions. How we could
conclude that “the eligibility criteria in 8 C.F.R. § 235.7(a)(4)(x)” are
“even more” susceptible to judicial review than the reliability and current
availability of information is absolutely mystifying.
54           JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


against which to judge the agency’s exercise of discretion,”
Spencer Enterprises, 345 F.3d at 688, I now turn to comment
briefly on the majority’s treatment of this court’s decision in
Perez Perez v. Wolf, 943 F.3d 853 (9th Cir. 2019). Like the
other cases relied on by the majority, Perez Perez is
ultimately distinguishable from this case. But it was also
wrongly decided, and so the majority doubly errs in
unnecessarily extending it.
    In Perez Perez, our court considered whether § 701(a)(2)
of the APA commits the question of eligibility for a “U visa”
to the discretion of the United States Citizenship and
Immigration Service (“USCIS”). Id. at 856. “[A] petitioner
is eligible for a U visa if the petitioner (1) has suffered
‘substantial physical or mental abuse’ as a result of having
been a victim of qualifying criminal activity; (2) ‘possesses
information’ about qualifying criminal activity; and (3) ‘has
been helpful, is being helpful, or is likely to be helpful’ to an
authority ‘investigating or prosecuting’ qualifying criminal
activity.” Id. at 863 (quoting 8 U.S.C. § 1101(a)(15)(U)). In
evaluating these eligibility criteria, the agency has a
statutory “duty to ‘consider any credible evidence relevant
to the petition.’” Id. (quoting 8 U.S.C. § 1184(p)(4).
Ultimately, our court in Perez Perez found that these
statutory eligibility criteria provided meaningful standards
of review. Id.
    Like in Husyev and Taslimi, the task the agency faced in
Perez Perez is meaningfully different than the task CBP
faces in assessing the risk posed by Jajati’s SENTRI status.
In Perez Perez, the three statutory criteria—past abuse,
possession of relevant information, and helpfulness—
directly inform the question of eligibility for a U visa. How,
then, would that assessment work out in practice? If USCIS
finds that a petitioner (1) has suffered abuse, (2) possesses
             JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.          55


information, and (3) he has been helpful to an investigation,
then it can conclude with certainty that the petitioner is
statutorily eligible for the visa.
    By contrast, the disputed regulations in this case provide
CBP with no such certainty when determining an applicant’s
eligibility for SENTRI status.              While 8 C.F.R.
§ 235.7(a)(1)(i) makes it sufficiently clear that the
touchstone for eligibility is risk, the criteria in
§ 237.1(a)(4)(x) do not speak to the risk assessment with
anywhere near the degree of clarity as in Perez Perez
because, as has now been exhaustively explained, CBP
retains considerably more discretion when determining
SENTRI eligibility than USCIS does when assessing U visa
eligibility. Thus, even taking its conclusions as true, Perez
Perez is readily distinguishable.
    Even if Perez Perez were indistinguishable, however, I
believe it was wrongly decided, and for the reasons laid out
in Judge Callahan’s thoughtful dissent, I would vote to take
an appropriate case en banc to correct its errors. See id. at
873–75 (Callahan, J., dissenting). And unfortunately, Perez
Perez is not even close to the worst offender. See, e.g.,
Keating, 610 F.2d at 612; see also City of Los Angeles, 307
F.3d at 869 n.6. Results like this one are just the latest in a
long line of judicial intrusions into matters prudently
committed to the agency’s discretion.
                             III.
    The majority’s decision today not only misinterprets the
APA, but it also threatens to make serious practical
impositions on CBP’s ability to administer the SENTRI
program moving forward. Defending its decisions on appeal
will inevitably force the agency to divulge its reasons for
revoking memberships to reviewing courts, some of which
56           JAJATI V. U.S. CUSTOMS & BORDER PROT.


might pertain to sensitive matters of national security. See
Webster v. Doe, 486 U.S. 592, 600 (1988) (citing
considerations of national security as a basis to foreclose
judicial review of an ex-CIA employee’s wrongful
termination claim); see also Bennett v. Chertoff, 425 F.3d
999, 1001 (D.C. Cir. 2005) (“Because the authority to issue
a security clearance is a discretionary function of the
Executive Branch and involves the complex area of foreign
relations and national security, employment actions based on
denial of security clearance are not subject to judicial
review.”).
    Worse, the agency will be forced to defend its
discretionary decision-making process even though
SENTRI’s enabling regulations nowhere oblige the agency
to explain the reasons for a revocation to a former member.
Forcing the agency to defend against actions like Jajati’s will
funnel more of CBP’s time and resources toward litigation,
which will very likely result in the agency granting fewer
SENTRI memberships overall. Or maybe the agency will
just err on the side of granting such memberships to avoid
judicial meddling. Either way, it is hard to see how this will
strike the right balance between our nation’s security and
expediting lawful border crossings. Because the majority
improperly aggrandizes judicial power and “plunges us
[further] into the standardless review” of inherently
discretionary agency decision-making, Perez Perez, 943
F.3d at 868 (Callahan, J., dissenting), I respectfully dissent.
