                FOR PUBLICATION

   UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
        FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

STATE OF WASHINGTON; STATE             No. 23-35294
OF OREGON; STATE OF
ARIZONA; STATE OF                     D.C. No. 1:23-cv-
COLORADO; STATE OF                      03026-TOR
CONNECTICUT; STATE OF
DELAWARE; STATE OF ILLINOIS;
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF                      OPINION
MICHIGAN; STATE OF NEVADA;
STATE OF NEW MEXICO; STATE
OF RHODE ISLAND; STATE OF
VERMONT; DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA; STATE OF HAWAII;
STATE OF MAINE; STATE OF
MARYLAND; STATE OF
MINNESOTA; COMMONWEALTH
OF PENNSYLVANIA,

             Plaintiffs-Appellees,

 v.

U.S. FOOD & DRUG
ADMINISTRATION; ROBERT M.
CALIFF, in his official capacity as
Commissioner of Food and Drugs;
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT
OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES; XAVIER BECERRA, in
2                  STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA


his official capacity as Secretary of the
Department of Health and Human
Service,

                  Defendants-Appellees,

    v.

STATE OF IDAHO; STATE OF
IOWA; STATE OF MONTANA;
STATE OF NEBRASKA; STATE OF
SOUTH CAROLINA; STATE OF
TEXAS; STATE OF UTAH, Proposed
State Plaintiff-Intervenors,

                  Movants-Appellants.

           Appeal from the United States District Court
             for the Eastern District of Washington
            Thomas O. Rice, District Judge, Presiding

         Argued and Submission Deferred March 13, 2024
                    Submitted July 17, 2024
                    San Francisco, California

                       Filed July 24, 2024

    Before: Sidney R. Thomas, M. Margaret McKeown, and
               Morgan Christen, Circuit Judges.

              Opinion by Judge Sidney R. Thomas
                   STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA                      3


                          SUMMARY*


             Article III Standing / Intervention

    The panel affirmed the district court’s order denying
Idaho’s motion to intervene as of right, and dismissed for
lack of jurisdiction the portion of the appeal concerning the
district court’s denial of permissive intervention, in the State
of Washington’s lawsuit challenging the Food and Drug
Administration’s imposition of safe-use restrictions on the
abortion drug mifepristone.
    The Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act authorizes the FDA
to restrict access to certain drugs by imposing a “risk
evaluation and mitigation strategy” (“REMS”) when it
concludes that doing so is necessary to ensure that the
benefits of the drug outweigh the risks. In a 2023 REMS, the
FDA eliminated in-person dispensing requirements for
mifepristone and allowed certain pharmacies to dispense
mifepristone at retail locations or by mail. Washington and
a collation of states sued the FDA under the Administrative
Procedure Act, arguing that the agency should have gone
further to eliminate hurdles to accessing mifepristone. Idaho
and a different coalition of states moved to intervene seeking
injunctive relief that would effectively reimpose the
previous REMS, including the in-person dispensing
requirement.




*
 This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
4                STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA


   The panel held that because Idaho sought different relief
from Washington, it must independently satisfy the
requirements of Article III standing.
    The panel concluded that Idaho’s complaint-in-
intervention did not establish a cognizable injury-in-fact that
was fairly traceable to the FDA’s revised safe-use
restrictions. Idaho could not establish standing based on the
alleged costs to the state’s finances because the asserted
casual chain was too attenuated. The panel rejected Idaho’s
allegation that elimination of the in-person dispensing
requirement would harm its sovereign interest in law
enforcement by making illegal mifepristone use harder to
detect because nothing in the REMS impaired Idaho’s
sovereign authority to enact or enforce its own laws
regulating chemical abortion. Finally, the panel rejected
Idaho’s allegation that elimination of the in-person
dispensing requirement would harm its “quasi-sovereign
interest” in maternal health and fetal life because the
allegations concern the interests of individual citizens—not
the separate interests of the state itself.
    Guided by the Supreme Court’s recent decision on
standing in FDA v. Alliance for Hippocratic Medicine, 602
U.S. 367 (2024), the panel held that because Idaho did not
have standing to bring the claims in its complaint, it affirmed
the denial of its motion to intervene. The panel did not reach
any other issue raised in the district court or urged by the
parties on appeal, including whether Idaho would be
otherwise entitled to intervene under Fed. R. Civ. P. 24.
                STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA                5


                       COUNSEL

Emma Grunberg (argued) and Tera M. Heintz, Deputy
Solicitors General; Noah G. Purcell, Solicitor General;
Office of the Attorney General, Olympia, Washington;
Andrew R.W. Hughes and Lauryn K. Fraas, Assistant
Attorneys General; Kristin Beneski, First Assistant Attorney
General; Colleen M. Melody, Civil Rights Division Chief;
Robert W. Ferguson, Attorney General; Office of the
Attorney General, Seattle, Washington;
Dustin Buehler, Deputy Attorney General; Ellen F.
Rosenblum, Attorney General; Denise G. Fjordbeck,
Assistant Attorney General; Sander Marcus Hull, Senior
Assistant Attorney General; Youngwoo J. Osb, Assistant
Attorney General; Oregon Department of Justice, Salem,
Oregon; Carla Scott, Deputy Attorney General, Oregon
Department of Justice; Portland, Oregon;
Luci D. Davis, Deputy Attorney General; Kris Mayes,
Attorney General; Office of the Arizona Attorney General,
Phoenix, Arizona; Daniel C. Barr, Perkins Coie LLP,
Phoenix, Arizona;
Sabrena Clinton, Deputy Attorney General; Heidi P. Stern,
Solicitor General; Aaron D. Ford, Attorney General; Office
of the Nevada Attorney General, Las Vegas, Nevada;
Aletheia Allen, Solicitor General; Raul Torrey, Attorney
General; Office of the New Mexico Attorney General,
Albuquerque, New Mexico;
Peter F. Neronha, Attorney General; Julia C. Harvey, Special
Assistant Attorney General; Office of the Rhode Island
Attorney General, Providence, Rhode Island;
6               STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA


Douglas Keehn, Assistant Attorney General; Charity R.
Clark, Attorney General; Eleanor L.P. Spottswood, Solicitor
General; Office of the Vermont Attorney General,
Montpelier, Vermont;
Brian L. Schwalb, Attorney General; Jennifer C. Jones,
Deputy Attorney General Public Advocacy Division;
William Stephens, Counsel to Deputy; Nicole S. Hill,
Assistant Attorney General; Office of the District of
Columbia Attorney General, Washington, D.C.;
Philip J. Weiser, Attorney General; Michael McMaster,
Assistant Attorney General; Office of the Colorado Attorney
General, Denver, Colorado; Eric Olson, Olson Grimsley
Kawanabe Hinchcliff & Murray LLC, Denver, Colorado;
William Tong, Attorney General; Joshua Perry, Solicitor
General; Office of the Connecticut Attorney General,
Hartford, Connecticut;
Kathleen Jennings, Attorney General; Vanessa L. Kassab,
Deputy Attorney General; Office of the Delaware Attorney
General, Wilmington, Delaware;
Kwame Raoul, Attorney General; Lisa Roberson-Young,
Public Interest Counsel; Office of the Illinois Attorney
General, Chicago, Illinois;
Dana Nessel, Attorney General; Stephanie M. Service,
Assistant Attorney Michigan Department of the Attorney
General Health, Education and Family Services Division;
Office of the Michigan Attorney General, Lansing
Michigan;
Anne E. Lopez, Attorney General; Erin Lau, Deputy
Attorney General, Office of the Hawaii Attorney General,
Honolulu, Hawaii;
                STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA               7


Aaron M. Frey, Attorney General; Halliday Moncure,
Assistant Attorney General; Office of the Maine Attorney
General, Augusta, Maine;
Joshua M. Segal, Assistant Attorney General; Anthony G.
Brown, Attorney General, Office of the Maryland Attorney
General, Baltimore, Maryland;
Keith Ellison, Attorney General; Liz Kramer, Solicitor
General; Jennifer Olson, Assistant Attorney General; Office
of the Minnesota Attorney General, St. Paul, Minnesota;
Michael A. Henry, Attorney General; Jill M. Graziano, Chief
Counsel to the Attorney General; Office of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Attorney General;
Morrison, Pennsylvania; for Plaintiffs-Appellees.
Daniel L. Winik (argued), Dana Kaersvang and Michael S.
Raab, Appellate Staff Attorneys; Vanessa R. Waldref,
United States Attorney; Brian M. Boynton, Principal Deputy
Assistant Attorney General; Civil Division, United States
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for Defendants-
Appellees.
Joshua N. Turner (argued), Acting Solicitor General, Chief
of Constitutional Litigation and Policy; Sean M. Corkery,
Assistant Solicitor General; Theodore J. Wold, Solicitor
General; Michael A. Zarian, Deputy Solicitor General; Raul
R. Labrador, Idaho Attorney General; Office of the Attorney
General, Boise, Idaho; Peter M. Torstensen Jr., Assistant
Solicitor General, Office of the Montana Attorney General,
Helena, Montana; Thomas T. Hydrick, Deputy Attorney
General, Office of the South Carolina Attorney General,
Columbia, South Carolina; Stanford Purser, Deputy
Solicitor, Office of the Utah Attorney General, Salt Lake
8                STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA


City, Utah; Lincoln D. Wilson, Alliance Defending
Freedom, Washington, D.C.; for Movants-Appellants.



                          OPINION

THOMAS, Circuit Judge:

    In this appeal, we consider whether Idaho is entitled to
intervene in Washington’s lawsuit challenging the Food and
Drug Administration’s (“FDA”) imposition of safe-use
restrictions on the abortion drug mifepristone. We conclude
that, because Idaho seeks different relief than Washington, it
must independently satisfy the requirements of Article III
standing. We further conclude that Idaho’s complaint-in-
intervention does not establish a cognizable injury-in-fact
that is fairly traceable to FDA’s revised safe-use restrictions.
We are guided in our decision by the Supreme Court's recent
decision on standing and the FDA's regulation of
mifepristone in FDA v Alliance for Hippocratic Medicine.
602 U.S. 367 (2024). Because Idaho does not have standing
to bring the claims in its complaint, we affirm the denial of
its motion to intervene.
                               I
                               A
    The Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA), 21 U.S.C.
§ 301 et seq., tasks FDA with ensuring the safety and
efficacy of all drugs that enter into interstate commerce. See
Wyeth v. Levine, 555 U.S. 555, 566–67 (2009). Before a new
drug is approved, the drug’s sponsor must submit an
application that includes patent and manufacturing
                     STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA                            9


information, the results of laboratory and clinical testing, and
proposed labeling and instructions for use. 21 U.S.C.
§ 355(b). The statute instructs FDA to approve a new drug
only when it determines that the drug is “safe for use under
the conditions prescribed, recommended, or suggested in the
proposed labeling.” Id. § 355(d).
    The FDCA also authorizes FDA to restrict access to
certain drugs by imposing a “risk evaluation and mitigation
strategy” or “REMS” when it concludes that doing so is
“necessary to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh
the risks[.]” Id. § 355-1(a)(1).1 A REMS may include
restrictions on drug labeling and packaging, as well as more
burdensome “safe use” restrictions, such as requirements
that providers be specially certified or that patients be
subjected to post-administration monitoring. Id. §§ 355-
1(d)–355-1(f). Unlike package and labeling requirements,
safe-use restrictions may only be imposed on drugs “with
known serious risks” of a “serious adverse drug experience.”
Id. § 355-1(f); id. § 355-1(b)(4). The statute instructs FDA
to design safe-use restrictions to ensure that they are
“commensurate with the specific serious risk” and do not
“unduly burden[]” patient access. Id. § 355-1(f)(2). Once
safe-use restrictions have been imposed, FDA must
periodically reevaluate them to ensure the restrictions are

1
  FDA’s authority to adopt additional restrictions was previously
governed by 21 C.F.R. §§ 314.500–560 (“Subpart H”). FDA adopted
Subpart H in 1992 to accelerate its approval of new drugs with the
potential to treat “serious or life-threatening illnesses” by authorizing the
agency to impose post-approval safety restrictions. 57 Fed. Reg. 58942,
58958–59 (Dec. 11, 1992). This authority was codified and expanded
by the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, Pub. L.
No. 110-85, 121 Stat. 823, which replaced Subpart H with the statutory
“REMS” framework. See id. § 505-1, 121 Stat. at 926–39.
10               STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA


well calibrated to balance safety, access, and “the burden on
the health care delivery system.” Id. § 355-1(f)(5)(B).
                              B
    Mifepristone is a medication that, when used in
combination with another drug called misoprostol, can
safely end an early pregnancy. FDA first authorized the
marketing of mifepristone under the commercial name
“Mifeprex” in 2000. As a condition of its approval, FDA
stipulated that Mifeprex could only be dispensed in person,
under the supervision of a physician with certain
qualifications, after the patient had been advised of the drugs
risks and had reviewed and signed a “patient agreement
form.” See All. for Hippocratic Med., 602 U.S. at 375–76
(describing original restrictions on Mifeprex approval).
    In 2011, FDA reauthorized Mifeprex under the revised
statutory framework that codified and expanded the
agency’s authority to impose a REMS. FDA retained the
original conditions on distribution, formulated as three
discrete safe-use restrictions requiring (1) in-person
dispensing,      (2) prescriber      certification,  and
(3) documentation of patient counseling and consent.
    Between 2011 and 2019, FDA reviewed the Mifeprex
REMS several times, authorizing a handful of changes to
prescribing guidelines and, in 2019, approving a generic
version of mifepristone. At the conclusion of each review
FDA concluded it was necessary to retain the three safe-use
restrictions with only minor adjustments. See All. for
Hippocratic Medicine, 602 U.S. at 375–76.
    In 2020, FDA was forced to temporarily suspend the in-
person dispensing requirement in response to a lawsuit filed
by healthcare providers during the COVID-19 pandemic.
                    STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA                        11


Am. Coll. of Obstetricians & Gynecologists v. FDA, 472 F.
Supp. 3d 183, 194–97 (D. Md. 2020). The suspension was
in effect for six months, from July 2020 until January 2021,
before the district court’s injunction was stayed by the
Supreme Court. See FDA v. Am. Coll. of Obstetricians &
Gynecologists, 141 S. Ct. 578 (2021). During this time,
FDA observed no impact on patient safety. Based in part on
this revelation, FDA voluntarily stopped enforcing the in-
person dispensing requirement in April 2021 and initiated a
full review of the Mifepristone REMS Program.
    In December 2021, FDA announced the completion of
the review and its conclusions that the in-person dispensing
requirement should be permanently eliminated, thus
allowing certain pharmacies to dispense mifepristone at
retail locations or by mail. In place of in-person dispensing,
FDA added a new REMS requirement that pharmacies be
specially certified before dispensing the drug to ensure
compliance with the other safe-use restrictions—prescriber
certification and patient documentation—which FDA
elected to retain. The new REMS was finalized in January
2023.
                                   C
    In February 2023, a coalition of states led by Washington
sued FDA under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 5
U.S.C. § 706(2), arguing that the agency should have gone
further to eliminate hurdles to accessing mifepristone.2

2
  The eighteen plaintiff jurisdictions are Washington, Oregon, Arizona,
Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Michigan, Nevada, New
Mexico, Rhode Island, Vermont, D.C., Hawaii, Maine, Maryland,
Minnesota, and Pennsylvania. Because the plaintiff states are similarly
situated for the purpose of this appeal, we refer to them collectively as
“Washington.”
12                  STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA


Given the rarity of adverse events in the drug’s twenty-some
year history, Washington argues that mifepristone should no
longer be subject to any of the original safe-use restrictions.
Washington alleges that it is harmed as a regulated provider
of maternal health care and pharmacy dispensing, and is
forced to incur significant costs and risk as a result of the
certification and documentation requirements. Washington
supports these allegations with numerous sworn declarations
from providers and administrators who work for state
healthcare facilities.
    Washington’s operative complaint challenges the 2023
REMS as imposing “hurdles” to drug access “without any
corresponding medical benefit,” in violation of the FDCA,
21 U.S.C. § 355-1(f)(2) and APA, 5 U.S.C. § 706(2). In its
prayer for relief, Washington seeks a declaration that
mifepristone is “safe and effective” and an injunction
prohibiting FDA from enforcing the restrictions contained in
the 2023 REMS or otherwise “taking any action . . . to reduce
[mifepristone’s] availability.” Washington also filed a
motion for preliminary injunction, requesting the district
court to enjoin the FDA from enforcing the 2023 REMS or
otherwise “caus[ing] the drug to become less available.”
    In March 2023, a different coalition of states led by
Idaho moved to intervene, arguing that Washington’s
lawsuit jeopardizes their legally protected interests in
regulating the use of mifepristone within their borders.3
Idaho argues that Washington’s lawsuit could impair its
interest by making mifepristone easier to obtain and harder

3
  The seven intervenor states are Idaho, Iowa, Montana, Nebraska, South
Carolina, Texas, and Utah. Because the intervenor states are similarly
situated for the purpose of this appeal, we refer to them collectively as
“Idaho.”
                 STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA                 13


to police, and by limiting Idaho’s ability to challenge the
REMS in a separate lawsuit.
    Idaho filed a proposed complaint-in-intervention that,
like Washington’s, advances three causes of action under the
APA and seeks broad declaratory relief concerning the
legality of the 2023 REMS. Unlike Washington, however,
Idaho seeks injunctive relief that would effectively reimpose
the previous REMS, including the in-person dispensing
requirement. Idaho predicts that elimination of the in-person
dispensing requirement will lead to increased mifepristone
use under conditions that are either dangerous or illegal.
Idaho alleges this uptick will injure the state in three ways.
First, Idaho alleges that more women will experience
complications that require follow-up care, “some of which
[will be] borne by Idaho through Medicaid expenditures.”
Second, Idaho alleges that elimination of the “controlled” in-
person “delivery system” will “undermine Idaho’s ability to
enforce its laws.” Third, Idaho alleges that increased
mifepristone use will endanger women and prenatal life, in
which Idaho has a “legitimate interest.”
    Washington and FDA both opposed intervention but
advanced different arguments for why Idaho’s motion
should be denied. Washington argued that Idaho did not
satisfy the requirements for intervention under Federal Rule
of Civil Procedure 24 because its interest in reimposing the
in-person dispensing requirement was not implicated in
Washington’s case, which concerns the legality of different
safe-use restrictions. FDA argued the motion should be
denied because Idaho did not satisfy a threshold requirement
to demonstrate Article III standing to pursue relief that is
different from the relief requested by the existing plaintiffs.
14               STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA


    While the motion to intervene was pending, the district
court ruled on Washington’s motion for preliminary
injunction, granting the motion in part and enjoining FDA
from altering the status quo availability of mifepristone in
the eighteen plaintiff jurisdictions. In evaluating the motion,
the district court concluded that Washington had standing to
challenge the 2023 REMS based on its allegations of direct
harm to the state’s health care system, practice restrictions
on state employees, and “unrecoverable” compliance costs.
The district court declined to enjoin the 2023 REMS in its
entirety because doing so would have the perverse effect of
reimposing the previous REMS, which would “run[] directly
counter” to Washington’s apparent aim.
    On April 21, 2023, the district court denied Idaho’s
motion to intervene. The district court concluded that Idaho
was not entitled to intervene as a matter of right because it
did not have a “significantly protectable interest” that would
be impaired by the litigation since its complaint concerned
different features of the 2023 REMS. See Fed. R. Civ. P.
24(a). The district court also declined to permit Idaho to
intervene permissively based on its conclusion that Idaho’s
APA claims did not share any questions of law or fact with
Washington’s claims. See Fed. R. Civ. P. 24(b). Idaho
timely appealed the denial of its motion to intervene.
                              II
    We have jurisdiction to review the denial of a motion to
intervene as of right under 28 U.S.C. § 1291, and our review
is de novo, except for the element of timeliness, which we
review for abuse of discretion. W. Watersheds Project v.
Haaland, 22 F.4th 828, 835 (9th Cir. 2022). “We have
jurisdiction over a district court’s denial of permissive
intervention only if we conclude that the district court
                 STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA                 15


abused its discretion.” Cooper v. Newsom, 13 F.4th 857, 868
(9th Cir. 2021) (citation omitted).
    When the party attempting to intervene—whether as of
right or permissively—seeks different relief than the original
plaintiff, we review whether the intervening party has
Article III standing to pursue the claims advanced in its
complaint. Or. Prescription Drug Monitoring Program v.
U.S. Drug Enf’t Admin., 860 F.3d 1228, 1233–34 (9th Cir.
2017) (hereafter “OPDMP”). We review questions of
standing de novo. Isaacson v. Mayes, 84 F.4th 1089, 1095
(9th Cir. 2023). Like any party invoking federal jurisdiction,
the party seeking to intervene has the burden of
demonstrating standing “with the manner and degree of
evidence required” at the relevant stage of litigation. Lujan
v. Defs. of Wildlife, 504 U.S. 555, 561 (1992).
                              III
   The threshold issue in this appeal is whether Idaho must
separately establish standing to intervene. Because Idaho
seeks relief that is fundamentally different from that sought
by Washington, the answer is yes.
    “Article III of the Constitution limits the exercise of the
judicial power to ‘Cases’ and ‘Controversies.’” Town of
Chester v. Laroe Estates, Inc., 581 U.S. 433, 438 (2017)
(quoting U.S. Const. art. III, § 2, cl. 1). The purpose of this
“fundamental limitation” is to prevent courts from
“intrud[ing] upon the powers given to the other branches” in
our tripartite system. Id. (citation omitted). To establish
Article III standing, a plaintiff must demonstrate that they
have suffered a concrete “injury in fact” that is traceable to
the defendant and is likely redressable by judicial relief.
TransUnion LLC v. Ramirez, 594 U.S. 413, 423 (2021).
These requirements “screen[] out plaintiffs who might have
16               STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA


only a general legal, moral, ideological, or policy objection
to a particular government action,” and “prevents the federal
courts from becoming a ‘vehicle for the vindication of the
value interests of concerned bystanders.’”           All. for
Hippocratic Medicine, 602 U.S. at 381–82 (quoting Allen v.
Wright, 468 U.S. 737, 756 (1984)).
    The Supreme Court has repeatedly confirmed that
“[s]tanding is not dispensed in gross,” Davis v. Fed.
Election Comm’n, 554 U.S. 724, 734 (2008) (citation
omitted), which means that “[f]or all relief sought, there
must be a litigant with standing[.]” Town of Chester, 581
U.S. at 439. Thus, when a party moves to intervene in a case
and “seek[s] to obtain different relief than the original
plaintiff, the [i]ntervenor[] must establish independent
Article III standing.” OPDMP, 860 F.3d at 1233–34. By
contrast, “intervenors that seek the same relief sought by at
least one existing party . . . need not do so.” Cal. Dep’t of
Toxic Substances Control v. Jim Dobbas, Inc., 54 F.4th
1078, 1085 (9th Cir. 2022); see also Little Sisters of the Poor
Saints Peter & Paul Home v. Pennsylvania, 591 U.S. 657,
674 n.6 (2020) (explaining that the court below “erred by
inquiring into [intervenors’] independent Article III
standing” where they sought the same relief as the federal
government, which “clearly had standing”).
    In this case, application of Town of Chester’s intervenor
standing requirement turns on whether or not Idaho is
seeking the “same relief” as Washington. Idaho argues that
it is seeking the same relief because its complaint, like
Washington’s, asks the court to “hold unlawful and set
aside” the 2023 REMS. FDA disagrees, emphasizing the
states’ antipodal objectives with respect to the in-person
dispensing requirement: Washington seeks to loosen
restrictions even further while Idaho seeks to strengthen
                 STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA                  17


them. FDA argues that superficial similarities in the form of
the parties’ pleadings are “immaterial” when the ultimate
outcomes they seek are “fundamentally different.”
    To assess whether Idaho and Washington seek the same
relief, we look to the parties’ complaints, which is the “best
evidence of the relief [they] seek[].” Town of Chester, 581
U.S. at 440. In so doing, we consider not just the legal form
of the parties’ claims, but also their ultimate objectives. See,
e.g., In re Volkswagen “Clean Diesel” Mktg., Sales Pracs.,
& Prod. Liab. Litig., 894 F.3d 1030, 1044 (9th Cir. 2018);
OPDMP, 860 F.3d at 1234. As the Supreme Court explained
in Town of Chester, for example, two parties bringing
“substantively identical” claims should nonetheless be
understood as “seek[ing] different relief” when they seek
separate judgments. 581 U.S. at 437, 440.
    Applying Town of Chester, we have repeatedly held that
an intervenor whose claims arise under a different legal
theory “seeks different relief.” In OPDMP, for example, we
considered an attempt by the ACLU Foundation of Oregon
to intervene in a lawsuit brought by the state of Oregon. 860
F.3d at 1231. The state plaintiffs sought a declaratory
judgment that, under state law, the U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration (“DEA”) was required to obtain a court order
before accessing state prescription drug records. 860 F.3d at
1233–34. The ACLU, by contrast, sought declaratory and
injunctive relief “founded on the Fourth Amendment”
ordering the DEA to obtain a warrant before it could access
the same records. Id. at 1234. We concluded that because
the ACLU wanted “something very different” than the
original plaintiffs, it “must establish independent Article III
standing.” Id. Likewise, in In re Volkswagen “Clean
Diesel” Marketing, we concluded that an injunction
requiring Volkswagen to rescind the sale of vehicles
18              STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA


programmed to cheat on emissions tests would be
“completely different” relief than an injunction requiring
Volkswagen to stop installing the software in the future,
notwithstanding the fact that both claims were founded on
alleged violations of the Clean Air Act. 894 F.3d at 1044.
    This case is somewhat different in that both
Washington’s and Idaho’s complaints advance claims under
the APA, which provides a generic cause of action for
persons aggrieved by agency action. See 5 U.S.C. §§ 701–
706. Invoking the broad scope of relief authorized by the
APA, id. § 706(2), both complaints ask the court to declare
the 2023 REMS unlawful and enjoin FDA from “enforcing
or applying” its requirements. Beyond these superficial
features, however, the two complaints have little in common
and are, in many respects, diametrically opposed.
    Washington and Idaho allege that different features of
the 2023 REMS are unlawful. Washington’s complaint
concerns the legality of FDA’s retention of the provider
certification and patient documentation requirements, as
well as the agency’s broader determination that mifepristone
meets the “stringent standards” for the imposition of safe-
use restrictions in the first place. Idaho’s complaint, by
contrast, focuses entirely on FDA’s elimination of the in-
person dispensing requirement, alleging that the change was
inadequately explained, contrary to medical science, and
violative of 21 U.S.C. § 355-1(a)(1).
    Washington and Idaho also seek different remedies.
Washington asks the court to enjoin the enforcement of any
safe-use restrictions based on its view that they are not
justified by any “known serious risk.” See 21 U.S.C. § 355-
1(f)(2). Idaho seeks “something very different,” OPDMP,
860 F.3d at 1234, asking the court to declare the 2023
                 STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA                19


changes to the REMS unlawful, vacate the revision, and
effectively reinstate the prior status quo, including the in-
person dispensing requirement. As the district court
recognized, reinstating the status quo would “run[] directly
counter to [Washington’s] request” by reducing the
availability of mifepristone.         Indeed, the text of
Washington’s complaint, which declares that “the 2023
REMS improved on” the previous regime clearly reveals the
chasm between the parties’ preferred outcomes.
    Given the deep and obvious conflict between the parties’
objectives, we cannot conclude that Idaho seeks the “same
relief” as Washington. Under Town of Chester, Idaho must
independently establish Article III standing to intervene.
                             IV
    We next consider whether the allegations in Idaho’s
complaint establish standing to challenge FDA’s elimination
of the in-person dispensing requirement. Idaho’s complaint
alleges three kinds of injury caused by the 2023 REMS:
increased Medicaid costs, interference with state law
enforcement, and harms to women and fetal life. Where, as
here, the propriety of intervention “must be determined
before discovery,” we generally accept “all well-pleaded,
nonconclusory allegations” in the proposed complaint as
true. Sw. Ctr. for Biological Diversity v. Berg, 268 F.3d 810,
819–20 (9th Cir. 2001); see also Lujan, 504 U.S. at 561 (“At
the pleading stage, general factual allegations of injury
resulting from the defendant’s conduct may suffice [to
establish standing.]”). We conclude that none of the
allegations contained in Idaho’s complaint constitute a
cognizable injury-in-fact to the state’s own interests.
   In assessing Idaho’s standing, we are mindful of both the
general requirements for Article III standing set forth in
20               STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA


Lujan, 504 U.S. at 560–61, as well as prudential limits on
states’ ability to sue the federal government on behalf of
their citizens. See Haaland v. Brackeen, 599 U.S. 255, 294–
95 (2023) (“Texas lacks standing to . . . assert equal
protection claims on behalf of its citizens because a State
does not have standing as parens patriae to bring an action
against the Federal Government.” (cleaned up));
Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U.S. 447, 485–86 (1923)
(“While the state, under some circumstances, may sue . . .
for the protection of its citizens, it is no part of its duty or
power to enforce their rights in respect of their relations with
the federal government.” (internal citation omitted)). We
heed the Supreme Court’s reminder to “remain mindful of
bedrock Article III constraints in cases brought by States
against an executive agency or officer.” United States v.
Texas, 599 U.S. 670, 680 n.3 (2023).
                               A
    Idaho first alleges that elimination of the in-person
dispensing requirement will cause the state economic injury
in the form of increased costs to the state’s Medicaid system.
At oral argument, Idaho stated that this is its “strongest
basis” for standing. Even taking Idaho’s highly speculative
allegations as true, the complaint does not demonstrate an
injury-in-fact because it depends on an attenuated chain of
healthcare decisions by independent actors that will have
only indirect effects on state revenue.
    Like any party, a state has standing to challenge federal
action that directly harms the state’s economic interests or
interferes with its operations as a service provider, market
participant, or employer. See, e.g., Dept. of Com. v. New
York, 588 U.S. 752, 766–68 (2019); City & Cnty.. of San
Francisco v. U.S. Citizenship & Immigr. Servs., 981 F.3d
                 STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA                 21


742, 754 (9th Cir. 2020); Washington v. Trump, 847 F.3d
1151, 1159-61 (9th Cir. 2017) (per curiam). To establish
standing based on an alleged “pocketbook injur[y],” the state
must allege a concrete impact on state revenues that is
caused by the defendant’s allegedly unlawful conduct.
California v. Texas, 593 U.S. 659, 674 (2021). While the
injury need not be direct, there must be a strong “causal
chain” that “links” the federal action to the alleged harm.
California v. Azar, 911 F.3d 558, 571–72 (9th Cir. 2018).
“[P]laintiffs attempting to show causation generally cannot
‘rely on speculation about the unfettered choices made by
independent actors not before the courts.’” All. for
Hippocratic Medicine, 602 U.S. at 383 (quoting Clapper v.
Amnesty Int’l USA, 568 U.S. 398, 415 n.5 (2013)).
    In recent years, the Supreme Court has specifically
cautioned us to be wary of theories of state standing that rely
on the “indirect effects” of federal policy on state revenue or
state spending. United States v. Texas, 599 U.S. at 680 n.3;
see also California v. Texas, 593 U.S. at 675–78. As the
Sixth Circuit has explained, a theory of state standing “in
which all peripheral costs imposed on the States by actions
of the [executive branch]” constitute cognizable injuries
would “make a mockery” of Article III. Arizona v. Biden,
40 F.4th 375, 386 (6th Cir. 2022) (citation omitted).
    In this case, Idaho alleges that it will sustain economic
injury in the form of downstream medical costs that will
borne by the state. Specifically, Idaho alleges that
elimination of the in-person dispensing requirement will
cause more providers to dispense mifepristone to women
“with contraindications,” which in turn will lead more
women to experience complications that require follow-up
care, which will harm the state because some portion of the
aggregate cost of that follow-up care will be “borne by Idaho
22               STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA


through Medicaid expenditures.” The complaint does not
clearly explain what form these expenditures will take, but
we infer from the complaint that Idaho means it will be
forced to reimburse providers for care delivered to those
women enrolled in state-sponsored health plans. In other
words, Idaho’s allegations of economic harm refer to the
costs it will incur as an insurer of women who use
mifepristone. Unlike Washington, Idaho does not allege that
it will incur these costs directly as the object of regulation,
but indirectly as the result of “the government’s allegedly
unlawful . . . lack of regulation of someone else.” Lujan, 504
U.S. at 562 (cleaned up). Accordingly, “much more is
needed” to establish causation and redressability. Id.
    As the Supreme Court recently explained in Alliance for
Hippocratic Medicine, the causal chain between FDA’s
regulation of mifepristone and downsteam medical
outcomes is highly attenuated, “even assuming for the sake
of argument” that the 2023 REMS will “cause more pregnant
women to require emergency abortions.” 602 U.S. at 387–
93. The links in this chain depend on the independent
actions of doctors and pregnant women whose medical
decisionmaking is informed by a wide range of
individualized considerations that are difficult to predict.
The 2023 REMS does not require doctors to prescribe
mifepristone to certain patients; it simply provides doctors
and patients with increased flexibility to choose how to
dispense the drug based on their assessment of risk in each
individual case. Nor does the 2023 REMS prevent Idaho
from prohibiting medical abortion within its borders under
circumstances the state deems contrary to public policy. For
example, under current law, women in Idaho will only be
“exposed” to the alleged risks of mifepristone when one or
more independent actors decides to break state law. See
                 STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA                  23


Idaho Code §§ 18-604, 18-608, 18-622. Given these
contingencies, any marginal increase in the rate at which
pregnant women require additional medical care is too
attenuated to establish the requisite causal connection.
    Further, an alleged uptick in Medicaid costs is exactly
the kind of “indirect effect[] on . . . state spending” that the
Supreme Court has rejected as a basis for standing. United
States v. Texas, 599 U.S. at 680 n.3. As the Supreme Court
has explained, “virtually all drugs come with complications,
risks, and side effects,” which means that changes in
prescription drug guidelines will frequently “yield more
visits to doctors to treat complications or side effects.” All.
for Hippocratic Medicine, 602 U.S. at 392. Allowing Idaho
to proceed based on predictions of increased emergency-
room visits alone would give not just states, but every entity
that provides health insurance or subsidized medical care,
standing “to challenge any FDA decision approving a new
drug.” Id. We decline to endorse this boundless conception
of Article III’s injury requirement. Idaho cannot establish
standing based on the alleged costs to the state’s finances
because the asserted causal chain is too attenuated.
                               B
    Idaho next alleges that elimination of the in-person
dispensing requirement will harm its sovereign interest in
law enforcement by making illegal mifepristone use harder
to detect. This allegation is insufficient to convey standing
because nothing in the 2023 REMS impairs Idaho’s
sovereign authority to enact or enforce its own laws
regulating chemical abortion.
   States have standing to vindicate their authority as
sovereign entities with a governing prerogative that is
separate from the federal government. Alfred L. Snapp &
24               STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA


Son, Inc. v. Puerto Rico, ex rel., Barez, 458 U.S. 592, 600–
02 (1982). A state has a “sovereign interest” in the retention
of its authority to “exercise . . . sovereign power over
individuals and entities within [its] jurisdiction,” including
“the power to create and enforce a legal code.” Id. at 601;
see also Bowen v. Pub. Agencies Opposed to Soc. Sec.
Entrapment, 477 U.S. 41, 50 n.17 (1986) (acknowledging a
state’s “judicially cognizable interest in the preservation of
its own sovereignty”). This interest is sufficient to convey
standing to defend a state statute against a legal challenge in
federal court, Diamond v. Charles, 476 U.S. 54, 62 (1986);
Maine v. Taylor, 477 U.S. 131, 136 (1986), or challenge a
federal statute that preempts or nullifies state law, see
generally, e.g., Colorado v. Toll, 268 U.S. 228 (1925);
Oregon v. Ashcroft, 192 F. Supp. 2d 1077, 1087 (D. Or. 14
2002); see also Kentucky v. Biden, 23 F.4th 585, 598–99 (6th
Cir. 2022) (collecting cases). This cognizable interest in the
preservation of sovereign authority, however, does not
convey standing to challenge federal action that affects state
law enforcement indirectly, by making violations of state
law more difficult or costly to detect.
    Here, Idaho alleges an injury to its sovereign interest in
enforcing state abortion laws, which make mifepristone
illegal to use under most circumstances. See Idaho Code
§§ 18-602, 18-604, 18-617, 18-622; Moyle v. United States,
144 S.Ct. 2015, 2016–17 (2024) (Kagan, J., concurring)
(describing Idaho’s abortion laws). Idaho alleges that
elimination of the in-person dispensing requirement will
impede the state’s ability to enforce those laws by making it
easier for Idaho residents to obtain and use mifepristone
illegally. Idaho does not, however, allege that the 2023
REMS preempts or otherwise interferes with the state’s
                 STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA                25


authority to enact or enforce restrictions on medical abortion
within its boundaries.
    These allegations are insufficient to demonstrate
standing for two reasons. First, Idaho’s prediction that
elimination of the in-person dispensing requirement will
lead to illegal use of mifepristone depends heavily on
speculation that doctors and pregnant women will break state
law. As we have previously explained, speculation about the
decisions of independent actors, without more, is not a
proper basis for standing. Clapper, 568 U.S. at 414. Second,
even if the availability of retail and mail-order dispensing
does make mifepristone more difficult to police, we have
never held that a logistical burden on law enforcement
constitutes a cognizable Article III injury.         Holding
otherwise would greatly expand state standing to challenge
any federal action that allegedly increases crime or disorder,
or imposes indirect compliance costs for state law
enforcement.
    In United States v. Texas, the Supreme Court has
declined to take the federal judiciary down this “uncharted
path.” 599 U.S. at 681. In that case, Texas sued the
Department of Homeland Security, arguing that the agency’s
revised enforcement guidelines, which deprioritized the
deportation of noncitizens convicted of nonviolent offenses,
violated federal law. Id. at 673–75. Texas alleged that it was
injured by the increased costs of “incarcerat[ing]” and
“supply[ing] social services” to individuals who “should be
(but are not being) arrested.” Id. at 674. The Supreme Court
forcefully rejected this “novel standing argument,” noting
that holding otherwise would lead to an increase in
“complaints in future years about alleged Executive Branch
under-enforcement” of other laws, including “drug laws, gun
laws, obstruction of justice laws, or the like.” Id. at 681.
26               STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA


This slippery slope concern is just as salient for Idaho’s
theory of injury, which similarly lacks a limiting principle.
    Because Idaho does not allege that the 2023 REMS
encroaches on its authority to govern, it does not have
standing based on “law enforcement injury.”
                               C
    Finally, Idaho alleges that elimination of the in-person
dispensing requirement will harm its “quasi-sovereign
interest” in maternal health and fetal life. Idaho cannot sue
FDA on this basis because the allegations concern the
interests of individual citizens—not the separate interests of
the state itself.
    In Massachusetts v. EPA, the Supreme Court explained
that states have standing to sue the federal government based
on their “quasi-sovereign interests,” that “concern the state
as a whole.” 549 U.S. 497, 520 n.17 (2007) (citation
omitted). These interests include the “health and welfare” of
state residents generally, which may be endangered by
harms to the land or environment within a state’s sovereign
territory. See id. at 519–23; California v. Trump, 963 F.3d
926, 936 (9th Cir. 2020); Nat. Res. Def. Council v. EPA, 542
F.3d 1235, 1248 n.8 (9th Cir. 2008). However, states do not
have standing to sue the federal government in a third-party
parens patrie capacity based on alleged injuries “to an
identifiable group of individual residents.” Snapp, 458 U.S.
at 607. This is because, with respect to the relationship
between citizens and federal action, the federal government,
not the states, is the sovereign entity that acts as the ultimate
“parent of the country.” See id. at 600 (“Parens patriae
means literally ‘parent of the country.’”); Mellon, 262 U.S.
at 485–86.
                 STATE OF WASHINGTON V. FDA                 27


     Here, Idaho alleges that elimination of the in-person
dispensing requirement will endanger specific pregnant
women who take the drug and “unborn children” subjected
to its effects. These allegations concern the well-being of
individual citizens—not a distinct interest of the state as a
whole. See Snapp, 458 U.S. at 607 (“the State must
articulate an interest apart from the interests of particular
private parties”). While Idaho has a legitimate interest in
legislating to protect maternal health and fetal life, Dobbs v.
Jackson Women’s Health Org., 597 U.S. 215, 262 (2022), it
does not have standing to bring a lawsuit “on behalf of its
citizens” against a federal agency, Brackeen, 599 U.S. at
294–95. Idaho’s characterization of the medical risks of
mifepristone as harms to the state itself is a “thinly veiled
attempt to circumvent the limits on parens patriae standing.”
Murthy v. Missouri, 144 S.Ct. 1972, 1996–97 (2024)
(quoting Brackeen, 599 U.S. at 295 n.11).
                              V
    In sum, Idaho does not have standing in this case to
challenge the 2023 REMS based on the allegations contained
in its complaint. Having failed to establish independent
standing, Idaho cannot intervene to pursue separate relief.
Because this appeal is confined to that narrow issue, we need
not—and do not—reach any other issue raised in the district
court or urged by the parties on appeal, including whether
Idaho would otherwise be entitled to intervene under Federal
Rule of Civil Procedure 24. We affirm the district court’s
order denying Idaho’s motion to intervene as of right. We
dismiss for lack of jurisdiction that portion of the appeal
concerning the district court’s denial of permissive
intervention.
   AFFIRMED in part and DISMISSED in part.
