                    [NOT FOR PUBLICATION]
                United States Court of Appeals
                    For the First Circuit
                                         

Nos. 93-1226
 93-1636

                       DAVID LOFFREDO,

                    Plaintiff, Appellant,

                              v.

          NATIONWIDE MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY,

                     Defendant, Appellee.

                                         

        APPEALS FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

               FOR THE DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND

         [Hon. Ernest C. Torres, U.S. District Judge]
                                                    

                                         

                            Before

                   Torruella, Circuit Judge,
                                           
                Rosenn,* Senior Circuit Judge,
                                             
                  and Stahl, Circuit Judge.
                                          

                                         

Stephen  J. Fortunato,  Jr. with  whom Fortunato  &amp; Tarro  was  on
                                                         
brief for appellant.
John M.  Boland with whom Boyer,  Reynolds &amp; DeMarco,  Ltd. was on
                                                           
brief for appellee.
                                         

                                         

                
*Of the Third Circuit, sitting by designation

          Per  Curiam.  We have carefully reviewed the record
                      

in  this case  and  are  of the  opinion  that the  contested

district  court findings --  i.e., (1) that  defendant easily

met  its  burden  of demonstrating  that  plaintiff  had made

material misrepresentations during the course of  defendant's

investigation of the fire underlying this litigation; and (2)

that  defendant easily met  its burden of  demonstrating that

plaintiff had engaged  in fraudulent conduct relating  to the

fire -- are amply supported.  Thus, because each such finding

relieved defendant  of  liability under  the  fire  insurance

policy issued  by defendant to  plaintiff, the court  did not

err in entering judgment in  favor of defendant on all counts

set forth in plaintiff's complaint.

          Furthermore, we agree with  the district court that

this case is one  of those very rare instances  where a shift

in attorneys' fees pursuant to the inherent  authority of the

district court, see  Jones v. Winnepesaukee Realty,  990 F.2d
                                                  

1, 4  (1st Cir. 1993) ("It  is beyond serious  dispute that a

federal  court possesses  inherent power to  shift attorneys'

fees  when parties  conduct litigation  in  bad faith."),  is

appropriate.1    The  record is  replete  with  evidence that

plaintiff and several  of his witnesses, both  prior to trial

                    

1.  Because we find  the court's fee-shifting sanction  to be
appropriate  in both  substance and  amount  pursuant to  the
court's inherent  authority, we  need not  and do not  decide
whether the sanction  also was authorized by Fed.  R. Civ. P.
11.

                             -2-
                              2

and at the  trial itself, gave untruthful  testimony relating

to  plaintiff's actions  on the  weekend of  the fire.   This

testimony alone,  in the context of this  case, is sufficient

to support  the sanction imposed.   Therefore, the  court did

not  err in granting defendant's motion for sanctions against

plaintiff.  

          Finally,  we agree with  the district court  in its

characterization  of this  litigation by  plaintiff as  truly

deplorable.

          Accordingly,  we  summarily affirm  the  challenged

orders of the district court.  See First Circuit Rule 27.1.
                                  

          Affirmed.
                   

                             -3-
                              3
