 United States Court of Appeals
         FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT



Argued December 11, 2023                Decided July 12, 2024

                         No. 22-1337

       INTERNATIONAL DARK-SKY ASSOCIATION, INC.,
                      APPELLANT

                              v.

          FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION,
                      APPELLEE

            SPACE EXPLORATION HOLDINGS, LLC,
                      INTERVENOR



                 Consolidated with 23-1001


              On Appeals from an Order of the
            Federal Communications Commission



     Charles Lee Mudd Jr. argued the cause and filed the briefs
for appellant International Dark-Sky Association, Inc.

    Pantelis Michalopoulos argued the cause for appellant
DISH Network Corporation. With him on the briefs were Mark
C. Savignac and William Travis West.
                               2

    James M. Carr and Rachel Proctor May, Counsel, Federal
Communications Commission, argued the causes for appellee.
With them on the brief was Jacob M. Lewis, Deputy General
Counsel.

     Pratik A. Shah argued the cause for intervenor in support
of appellee. With him on the brief were Michael Weisbuch and
Z.W. Julius Chen.

     Corbin K. Barthold and James E. Dunstan were on the
brief for amicus curiae TechFreedom in support of appellee.

    Before: RAO and CHILDS, Circuit Judges, and GINSBURG,
Senior Circuit Judge.

    Opinion for the Court filed by Circuit Judge RAO.

     RAO, Circuit Judge: The Federal Communications
Commission licensed a new satellite system owned by Space
Exploration Holdings (“SpaceX”). DISH Network challenges
the license on several grounds, including that the Commission
did not adequately consider the risk of signal interference with
other satellites. The International Dark-Sky Association also
appeals the order, asserting that the Commission failed to
conduct the environmental review required by the National
Environmental Policy Act. Because the Commission’s order
was lawful and reasonably explained, we affirm.

                               I.

                              A.

   We begin with the statutory and regulatory framework.
The Federal Communications Commission (“FCC” or
“Commission”) may grant broadcast licenses, including for
                                 3
satellites, when it would serve the “public convenience,
interest, or necessity.” Communications Act of 1934, Pub. L.
No. 73-416, ch. 652, § 307(a), 48 Stat. 1064, 1083 (codified as
amended at 47 U.S.C. § 307(a)). The Commission must also
regulate as “necessary to prevent interference between”
satellite systems. 47 U.S.C. § 303(f).

     As relevant here, there are two types of satellite systems.
Geostationary orbit satellites “remain in fixed positions relative
to the earth” and transmit direct broadcast services like those
offered by DISH. Northpoint Tech., Ltd. v. FCC, 412 F.3d 145,
155 (D.C. Cir. 2005). Non-geostationary orbit satellites
“continuously circle the earth” and include satellite
constellations like SpaceX’s Starlink system. Id. When issuing
a license, the FCC limits non-geostationary satellites to those
that do not “cause unacceptable interference to” existing
geostationary satellite systems. 47 C.F.R. § 25.289.
Interference is measured in terms of “power flux-density,”
which must remain below set limits. Id. §§ 25.103, 25.289.

     In 2017, the Commission incorporated the power flux-
density limits set by the International Telecommunications
Union (“ITU”) in its 2016 Radio Regulations. 1 See id.
§ 25.289; see also Update to Parts 2 and 25 Concerning Non-
Geostationary, Fixed-Satellite Service Systems and Related
Matters (“2017 Order”), 32 FCC Rcd. 7809, 7843 (2017).
Because the ITU has validation software to assess a satellite
system’s compliance with the power limits, the FCC
determined it was unnecessary to create a separate compliance


1
  The ITU Constitution and Convention, a multi-national treaty to
which the United States is a signatory, established the International
Telecommunications Union to address signal interference. See ITU
Convention, Dec. 22, 1992, 1825 U.N.T.S. 390, 492; Constitution of
the ITU art. 1, ¶ 2(b), Dec. 22, 1992, 1825 U.N.T.S. 331, 333, 376.
                                4
verification system and instead required applicants to use the
ITU’s software. 2017 Order, 32 FCC Rcd. at 7822.

     A license applicant must now follow a two-step process.
First, it must certify that it will comply with the ITU’s power
limits. 47 C.F.R. § 25.146(a). Second, it must submit power
flux-density data to the ITU and have the ITU confirm that the
system in fact complies with the power limits. Id. § 25.146(c).
If the ITU issues a favorable finding, the Commission may
issue the license.

                               B.

     This case involves SpaceX’s second generation Starlink
satellite system (“Gen2 Starlink”). SpaceX applied for a license
to operate 29,988 low-altitude non-geostationary orbit
satellites to deliver internet service. SpaceX first certified its
satellites would satisfy the ITU’s power limits. It then
submitted its data to the ITU for verification. In order to avoid
delay from the ITU’s backlog of applications, SpaceX also
requested the FCC grant the license while it waited for the
ITU’s finding.

     The FCC conditionally approved SpaceX’s license for
7,500 satellites, even though the ITU determination was still
pending. The Commission explained that licensing Gen2
Starlink was in the public interest because the system would
“improve[] broadband to unserved and underserved regions of
the United States and worldwide.” And it was also in the public
interest to approve deployment “as soon as possible” instead of
waiting for the ITU’s finding. The Commission explicitly
conditioned Gen2 Starlink’s continued operations on receiving
a favorable finding from the ITU, cautioning SpaceX that it
would need to adjust its operations to comply with the power
flux-density limits if it failed to obtain the requisite finding.
After the license issued, SpaceX was required to make the data
                                  5
it ran through the ITU software available to any party that
requested it.

                                 C.

     The two appellants before us opposed SpaceX’s Gen2
Starlink license application in the FCC proceedings.2 First,
DISH, a satellite owner and operator and SpaceX competitor,
petitioned the Commission to deny the license because SpaceX
would cause unacceptable interference to DISH’s satellites.
DISH also argued the Commission’s reliance on the ITU
standards and verification process amounted to an unlawful
delegation of the Commission’s licensing authority to an
outside party. The FCC declined to consider the evidence of
interference that DISH submitted to support its petition because
SpaceX was required only to self-certify its compliance with
the ITU limits. And it concluded that the ITU’s role in
reviewing power flux-density compliance was not an unlawful
delegation.

     Second, International Dark-Sky, an environmental group
composed of amateur astronomers and dark-sky enthusiasts,
objected to the FCC’s decision not to perform an
environmental review of the light pollution and atmospheric
effects of Gen2 Starlink. International Dark-Sky maintained
such a review was required under the National Environmental
Policy Act (“NEPA”). See Pub. L. No. 91-190, 83 Stat. 852
(codified at 42 U.S.C. §§ 4321 et seq.). The FCC concluded its



2
  Licensing proceedings require public notice and an opportunity for
comment. See 47 C.F.R. § 25.151(a), (d). Interested parties may
submit informal objections to the license or formally petition to deny
the license. See id. § 25.154. The FCC must examine these objections
before deciding whether to grant the license. See id. § 25.156(a).
                               6
regulations did not require an environmental review and denied
International Dark-Sky’s request.

    Both DISH and International Dark-Sky appealed the
Commission’s order granting SpaceX a license for its satellites.
See 47 U.S.C. § 402(b)(6). We consolidated the cases and
granted SpaceX’s motion to intervene.

                               II.

     We first address DISH’s appeal. DISH argues the
Commission acted arbitrarily and capriciously by disregarding
evidence that Gen2 Starlink will exceed the power flux-density
limits, by deferring the ITU favorable finding requirement, and
by withholding SpaceX’s data from public release until after
the licensing proceeding concluded. DISH also argues the
Commission unlawfully subdelegated its decisionmaking
authority to the ITU.

     The Administrative Procedure Act requires courts to set
aside agency actions, including licensing decisions, that are
arbitrary and capricious or not in accordance with law. 5 U.S.C.
§ 706(2)(A); accord NRDC v. NRC, 823 F.3d 641, 648–49
(D.C. Cir. 2016) (applying § 706 to licensing decisions). An
action is arbitrary and capricious when the agency relies on
inappropriate factors, fails to consider important aspects of the
problem, or ignores relevant evidence. See Motor Vehicle Mfrs.
Ass’n v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co., 463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983).
Within an agency’s lawful authority, courts will uphold agency
action that is “reasonable and reasonably explained.” FCC v.
Prometheus Radio Project, 141 S. Ct. 1150, 1158 (2021).
                                7
                               A.

    DISH first argues the Commission acted arbitrarily and
capriciously by disregarding evidence that Gen2 Starlink will
exceed the power flux-density limits.

     After running its data through the ITU software, SpaceX
certified that its satellites complied with the ITU’s power flux-
density limits. DISH submitted its own analysis showing that
Gen2 Starlink would exceed the limits. DISH attributes the
different results to the chosen data input file. SpaceX divided
the Gen2 Starlink power data into 18 separate files when it ran
the ITU analysis. After self-certifying its compliance, and at
the ITU’s request, SpaceX submitted its data to the
Commission in a “single combined filing” to “facilitate
preparation for ITU coordination.” DISH analyzed Gen2
Starlink’s compliance based on the combined file rather than
the 18 separate files. DISH maintains the Commission’s refusal
to consider its submission fails to respond meaningfully to
objections.

     The Commission was not required to consider DISH’s
analysis. At the first step of the licensing process, an applicant
must self-certify compliance with the ITU’s power limits. 47
C.F.R. § 25.146(a). Nothing in the regulation required the FCC
to independently verify the certification. DISH does not dispute
that agencies may employ reasonable methods of self-
certification and need not second guess such certifications any
time an objection is raised by a third party.

     While it is true we have held an agency cannot reasonably
ignore “smoking gun” evidence of a fraudulent self-
certification, no such evidence was presented here. See Animal
Legal Def. Fund, Inc. v. Perdue, 872 F.3d 602, 619 (D.C. Cir.
2017). DISH does not point to any evidence beyond its study
that indicates Gen2 Starlink is violating the power flux-density
                                8
limits or that the FCC is aware of any violation. By contrast, in
Animal Legal Defense Fund, the record included clear and
egregious evidence contradicting the applicant’s self-
certification. The Department of Agriculture “knew that the
[license applicants] were grossly and consistently out of
compliance” and that they had been repeatedly cited for
regulatory violations. Id. at 618–19. We held that “[r]eliance
on facts that an agency knows are false at the time it relies on
them is the essence of arbitrary and capricious
decisionmaking.” Id. at 619 (cleaned up).

     In this case, DISH argues simply that SpaceX grouped its
data for the analysis in a way that satisfied the ITU limits, while
a different grouping would not. But the regulations do not
specify how an applicant must group its data. SpaceX was
required to certify only the results of running its data—grouped
in whatever way—through the ITU software. SpaceX even
“consulted ITU staff on how to present datafiles for purposes
of [power flux-density] analysis.” SpaceX also later confirmed
the “combined filing,” not just the separate files, “demonstrates
compliance” with the ITU limits. DISH’s proffered evidence
falls well short of a smoking gun that would require the FCC
to disregard SpaceX’s self-certification.

   Relying on its self-certification licensing framework, the
Commission reasonably explained why it declined to consider
DISH’s alternative analysis.

                                B.

    Second, DISH argues the Commission acted arbitrarily
and capriciously by allowing SpaceX to begin operations
before receiving a favorable finding from the ITU. See 47
C.F.R. § 25.146(c). DISH also contends that it is internally
incoherent, and thus unreasonable, for the Commission to rely
on the ITU’s confirmation of SpaceX’s certification while
                                  9
providing an interim waiver of that favorable finding
requirement.3 We disagree.

     The Commission’s decision to grant SpaceX’s license
while waiting for the ITU’s determination was reasonable and
reasonably explained. The Commission can waive its rules “for
good cause shown,” id. § 1.3, including when “strict
compliance” would be “inconsistent” with its statutory
mandate to act in the public interest, AT&T Wireless Servs. v.
FCC, 270 F.3d 959, 965 (D.C. Cir. 2001) (cleaned up). The
FCC here found it was “in the public interest to … allow
[SpaceX] to begin deployment as soon as possible to bring
next-generation [internet] service to unserved and underserved
areas of the country and globally.” It relied on many of the
same factors that justified granting an interim waiver to license
SpaceX’s first generation satellite system. Reviewing that
license, this court held the interim waiver was reasonable
because the FCC sought to avoid the harm resulting from “long
delays in the provision of internet service to Americans who
remain totally unserved by other broadband solutions.” Viasat,
Inc. v. FCC, 47 F.4th 769, 777 (D.C. Cir. 2022) (cleaned up).
We reach the same conclusion here.

     Moreover, the Commission’s interim waiver is not
inconsistent with its reliance on the ITU providing a favorable
finding. The waiver does not relieve SpaceX of its regulatory
obligation. SpaceX must still obtain a favorable finding, and
the Commission clearly stated that any deployment in the
interim was “at SpaceX’s own risk.” If SpaceX ultimately fails
to secure a favorable finding, it will need to “adjust its


3
  The parties refer to this as a “partial waiver,” but it is merely an
interim waiver. The FCC continued to require SpaceX to receive a
favorable finding from the ITU; it just granted the license
provisionally before the finding was made.
                                10
operations accordingly to come into compliance” with the
power flux-density limits.

    The Commission’s decision to grant SpaceX’s license
before the ITU made its compliance determination was
reasonable and consistent with previous decisions of this court.

                                C.

     Third, DISH argues the Commission unreasonably and
unlawfully withheld SpaceX’s data from public release until
after the conclusion of the licensing proceeding. DISH
maintains it had a due process right and a right under the
Commission’s regulations to review SpaceX’s data. Because
the data was not part of the administrative record, DISH argues
it could not adequately participate in the licensing proceeding.

     Ex parte communications between an agency and a license
applicant are prohibited when the communications are
“inconsisten[t] … with the notion of a fair hearing and with the
principles of fairness implicit in due process.” U.S. Lines, Inc.
v. Fed. Mar. Comm’n, 584 F.2d 519, 539 (D.C. Cir. 1978). An
ex parte communication must not “deprive the public of the
right to participate meaningfully in the decisionmaking
process.” Id. at 540.

    Withholding SpaceX’s data did not deprive DISH of an
opportunity to participate meaningfully in the licensing
proceeding because the Commission did not evaluate SpaceX’s
data at either stage of the licensing process. 4 At the first step,
SpaceX was required only to self-certify, which by definition
did not involve agency analysis. And at the second step, the

4
 Because DISH was able to fully participate in the proceeding, we
need not decide whether DISH had a due process interest in
SpaceX’s license.
                               11
ITU independently analyzed the data and made a finding, so
there was no opportunity for DISH to participate. Neither step
required the FCC to independently evaluate SpaceX’s data, and
so DISH’s participation in the process was not impeded by the
unavailability of that data.

     DISH fares no better with its claim of a regulatory right to
SpaceX’s data. Commission rules require public disclosure of
a “written ex parte presentation” that is “directed to the merits
or outcome of a proceeding.” 47 C.F.R. §§ 1.1206(a), (b)(2),
1.1202(a). But the regulation explicitly exempts records
“prepared in connection with coordination” of satellite systems
under the ITU Radio Regulations. Id. § 0.457(d)(1)(vii)(B).
The Commission explained that the exemption applied because
SpaceX’s data submission was used only “to facilitate ITU
coordination.” DISH provides no reason to doubt the
Commission’s explanation of how it used (or did not use)
SpaceX’s data, nor does DISH offer any evidence to overcome
the presumption of regularity we afford to agencies. See
LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae, L.L.P. v. Abraham, 347
F.3d 315, 320 (D.C. Cir. 2003). We find the Commission
reasonably explained why the data was exempt from public
disclosure under its regulations.

     DISH also contends that, if it is true the Commission did
not rely on SpaceX’s data, its decision to license SpaceX’s
satellites was unsupported. But as we have already explained,
the FCC was not required to analyze the data because the
regulations require only a license applicant’s self-certification
and the ITU’s confirmation. Accordingly, failing to rely on
SpaceX’s data does not undermine the decision to grant the
license.
                                 12
     The Commission did not violate due process or its
regulations by declining to release SpaceX’s data before the
license approval.

                                 D.

    Finally, DISH argues the Commission has unlawfully
subdelegated its statutory authority by incorporating the ITU’s
power limits and assigning the ITU responsibility for verifying
compliance. We disagree.

     When Congress confers regulatory authority on an agency,
subdelegation of that authority “to outside parties [is] assumed
to be improper absent an affirmative showing of congressional
authorization.” U.S. Telecom Ass’n v. FCC, 359 F.3d 554, 565
(D.C. Cir. 2004). Not all third-party involvement in the
regulatory process is such a delegation, however. We have
recognized “three specific types of legitimate outside party
input into agency decision-making processes: (1) establishing
a reasonable condition for granting federal approval; (2) fact
gathering; and (3) advice giving.” Id. at 566.

    We need not consider whether Congress has authorized the
FCC to subdelegate to the ITU because there has been no
subdelegation of decisionmaking authority here. 5 The
Commission’s use of the ITU power flux-density limits is a

5
  The FCC has statutory authority to align its regulations with the
ITU’s power flux-density limits, a point DISH does not dispute.
Congress directed the FCC to “[m]ake such rules and
regulations … as may be necessary to carry out the provisions
of … any international radio or wire communications treaty or
convention.” 47 U.S.C. § 303(r). The ITU’s Radio Regulations,
which set the power flux-density limits, are incorporated into the ITU
Constitution and Convention and “binding on all Members.” See
Constitution of the ITU art. 4, ¶ 3, 1825 U.N.T.S. at 335.
                              13
type of legitimate outside party input. An agency may permit
outside parties to perform “nondiscretionary activities such as
compiling, hearing, and transmitting technical information.”
Id. at 567 (cleaned up). The ITU limits are highly technical and
based on the threshold at which conflicting radio waves begin
to interfere with satellite performance. Cf. Amerada Hess
Pipeline Corp. v. FERC, 117 F.3d 596, 601 (D.C. Cir. 1997)
(holding an agency may adopt technical standards
“promulgated by an independent organization” without
“surrender[ing] its responsibility for adopting” standards).

     An agency may “turn to an outside entity for advice and
policy recommendations, provided the agency makes the final
decisions itself.” U.S. Telecom Ass’n, 359 F.3d at 568. The
FCC retains all decisionmaking authority to set the power limit.
The Commission’s regulations are not indexed to the ITU’s
determinations, but rather incorporate a particular set of
limits—namely those in the ITU’s 2016 Radio Regulations.
See 47 C.F.R. § 25.108(c)(2). The ITU therefore cannot
unilaterally change the limits applicable in an FCC licensing
proceeding. Any change to the ITU standards would be
incorporated only if the FCC chose to revise its regulation. See
ITU Convention, Dec. 22, 1992, 1825 U.N.T.S. 390, 492 (“Nor
shall the United States of America be deemed to have
consented to be bound by revisions of the Administrative
Regulations … adopted subsequent to the date of signature.”).

     Furthermore, tasking the ITU with verifying an applicant’s
compliance with the power limits is legitimate outside party
input because it is nondiscretionary “fact gathering.” U.S.
Telecom Ass’n, 359 F.3d at 566. DISH attempts to characterize
the ITU’s role as more than fact gathering, suggesting that the
ITU made the final determination as to “whether SpaceX may
operate it[s] system.” But the ITU merely uses its software to
calculate a satellite system’s power flux-density, compares that
                              14
value to the ITU limits, and reports to the Commission whether
the value satisfies the limits. The ITU’s fact gathering is not
regulatory decisionmaking.

     Importantly, a favorable finding by the ITU does not
automatically yield a license. The Commission must consider
a variety of factors, including satellite interference, to
determine whether a license is in the public interest. After
receiving the ITU’s compliance finding, the Commission
makes the final decision about whether to grant a license.

    The Commission incorporates the ITU standards and relies
on the ITU for fact finding, but the agency retains its
decisionmaking authority. We therefore reject DISH’s
subdelegation challenge.

                             ***

     The Commission’s decision to license SpaceX’s Gen2
Starlink satellites was lawful and reasonable. We therefore
reject DISH’s appeal.

                             III.

     We next address International Dark-Sky’s appeal
challenging the Commission’s refusal to conduct an
environmental review before approving SpaceX’s license.
International Dark-Sky has standing; however, it has failed to
demonstrate the Commission’s actions were arbitrary,
capricious, or contrary to law.

                              A.

    International Dark-Sky asserts both associational and
organizational standing, which SpaceX contests. Because we
conclude International Dark-Sky has associational standing,
                               15
we need not consider whether it would also have organizational
standing.

     At the outset, International Dark-Sky has demonstrated
that it is a genuine membership organization. It submitted
declarations from two members who alleged injury from the
licensing of new SpaceX satellites and affirmed that
International Dark-Sky represented their interests. One
member, James Lowenthal, an astronomy professor, explained
the negative effects of light pollution on his professional
research and teaching, as well as on his personal interest in
viewing the night sky. Another member, Diana Umpierre,
explained the harm from light pollution and from not having
the results of an environmental assessment to educate the
public about the impact of SpaceX’s satellites. When “an
organization has identified members and represents them in
good faith, our cases do not require further scrutiny into how
the organization operates.” Students for Fair Admissions, Inc.
v. President & Fellows of Harvard Coll., 143 S. Ct. 2141, 2158
(2023).

     To establish associational standing, an organization must
show that “(1) its members would otherwise have standing to
sue in their own right; (2) the interests it seeks to protect are
germane to the organization’s purpose; and (3) neither the
claim asserted nor the relief requested requires the participation
of individual members in the lawsuit.” Ctr. for Sustainable
Econ. v. Jewell, 779 F.3d 588, 596 (D.C. Cir. 2015) (cleaned
up).

     International Dark-Sky has demonstrated its members
would have standing to sue in their own right. For the
procedural harm alleged here, there must be an injury in fact,
but the standards for redressability and causation are relaxed.
“[E]nvironmental plaintiffs adequately allege injury in fact
                               16
when they aver that they use the affected area and are persons
‘for whom the aesthetic and recreational values of the area will
be lessened’ by the challenged activity.” Friends of the Earth,
Inc. v. Laidlaw Env’t Servs. (TOC), Inc., 528 U.S. 167, 183
(2000) (cleaned up). International Dark-Sky alleges its
members are stargazers and astronomers who “use” the sky and
whose aesthetic and recreational activities will be inhibited by
light pollution from the satellites. And it submitted declarations
from its members to that effect. This suffices to allege an injury
in fact.

     International Dark-Sky has also satisfied the causation and
redressability requirements. For a procedural injury, an
organization “need demonstrate only that the procedural step
was connected to the substantive result, not that the agency
would have reached a different substantive result but for the
alleged procedural error.” Sierra Club v. FERC, 827 F.3d 59,
65 (D.C. Cir. 2016) (cleaned up). The alleged procedural harm
here was linked to the approval of SpaceX’s satellite license. If
the Commission switched course and performed an
environmental review, “the Commission could change its
position and deny” the license on remand, reducing the alleged
harms. Id. at 67.

     Second, this environmental challenge is germane to
International Dark-Sky’s purpose. “The germaneness
requirement mandates pertinence between litigation subject
and organizational purpose.” Ctr. for Sustainable Econ., 779
F.3d at 597 (cleaned up). International Dark-Sky exists
primarily to provide information and education to the public.
Its self-described mission is “to encourage communities, parks,
and protected areas around the world to preserve and protect
dark skies through responsible lighting practices and public
education.” Environmental assessments produce the type of
information relevant to an educational organization’s purpose.
                              17
     Third, participation by International Dark-Sky’s
individual members is not necessary. The appeal turns on
whether the FCC complied with its statutory obligations, and
the relief sought is vacatur of the license and remand for an
environmental review. Neither the legal claims nor the relief
sought involve individualized grievances. See id.

     We therefore hold that International Dark-Sky has
satisfied this court’s requirements for associational standing.

                              B.

    International Dark-Sky maintains the Commission’s
decision to grant SpaceX a license without performing an
environmental review was arbitrary and capricious and not in
accordance with law. 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A).

     NEPA requires federal agencies to consider the effects of
their decisions on the human environment before acting. See 42
U.S.C. § 4332. When applicable, such review would require a
license applicant to prepare an environmental assessment of its
proposed action. 47 C.F.R. § 1.1308(b). But there are
“categories of actions that normally do not have a significant
effect on the human environment, … and therefore do not
require preparation of an environmental assessment.” 40
C.F.R. § 1501.4(a). The FCC has determined in its NEPA
regulations that, subject to a few exceptions not relevant here,
all FCC actions (including granting licenses) “are deemed
individually and cumulatively to have no significant effect on
the quality of the human environment and are categorically
excluded from environmental processing.” 47 C.F.R.
§ 1.1306(a). The only way to overcome this categorical
exemption is if the FCC “determines that the action may have
a significant environmental impact.” Id. § 1.1307(c).
                               18
    SpaceX’s license falls within the categorical exclusion, so
an environmental assessment was required only if the FCC
determined that the license may have a significant
environmental impact. The FCC reasonably concluded that no
such impact was present here, and International Dark-Sky’s
arguments to the contrary are unavailing.

                               1.

     First, International Dark-Sky argues the FCC acted
arbitrarily and capriciously because its determination that Gen2
Starlink would have no significant environmental impact was
conclusory and lacked record support. In particular,
International Dark-Sky maintains the FCC failed to respond
adequately to a report showing that SpaceX’s satellite system
would cause significant atmospheric effects from rocket
launches and reentry as well as light pollution from orbiting
satellites.

     Relying on two European Space Agency studies, the FCC
reasonably concluded that the volume of atmospheric material
emanating from satellite launch and reentry would not
comprise a significant environmental impact. The FCC
concluded the studies were “the most relevant evidence in the
record” and “sufficiently persuasive … to conclude that there
would not be a significant environmental impact associated
with a constellation of 7,500 Gen2 Starlink satellites.”
Moreover, the Commission explained it relied on these studies
because they “focus[] specifically on atmospheric effects of
reentering spacecrafts,” while the report relied on by
International Dark-Sky emphasized the limited scientific
understanding of satellite constellation emissions. The FCC
further discounted the alternative report because it considered
the effects of all 29,988 satellites, but the Commission licensed
only a fraction of that number.
                               19
      We find the Commission adequately responded to
International Dark-Sky’s comments and reasonably explained
its reliance on the European Space Agency studies.

                                2.

    Second, International Dark-Sky argues the FCC cannot
rely on SpaceX’s mitigation efforts when assessing the
significance of the satellites’ environmental impact.

     But an agency may consider mitigation when weighing the
significance of potential environmental effects. 40 C.F.R.
§ 1501.4(b)(1); see also Sierra Club v. Van Antwerp, 661 F.3d
1147, 1156 (D.C. Cir. 2011) (“[A] project with a potentially
significant impact will not require [environmental review] if
changes or safeguards sufficiently reduce the impact.” (cleaned
up)). The FCC reasonably concluded SpaceX’s mitigation
efforts would help minimize any environmental impact.

     SpaceX demonstrated that it was changing its software and
hardware between its first and second generation systems to
decrease the satellites’ brightness. It also confirmed it was
collaborating with many of the groups that raised reflectivity
concerns—including NASA and the National Science
Foundation—to optimize its mitigation efforts. The FCC
explained that Gen2 Starlink satellites orbit lower than
previous satellites, which reduces reflectivity at night, and that
SpaceX’s satellite tracking system allows astronomers to
account for and avoid the satellites when observing the night
sky. While there may still be effects from the Gen2 Starlink
satellites, the Commission concluded the conditions it imposed
on SpaceX, “in addition to SpaceX’s planned mitigation
efforts, are sufficient to avoid significant environmental
effects, and therefore environmental review under NEPA is not
warranted.” The Commission’s approach is well within its
regulatory discretion. See 47 C.F.R. § 1.1307(c).
                               20
     International Dark-Sky also suggests the Commission’s
reliance on SpaceX’s mitigation efforts is evidence there would
be significant environmental effects from the license. But
recognizing the need for, and value of, mitigation cannot be the
standard for finding a substantial environmental impact.
Otherwise, as the Ninth Circuit noted in a similar NEPA
challenge, if proposed mitigation strategies “trigger the need to
prepare” an environmental assessment, agencies will be
incentivized “to leave out important conditions on permits for
fear that the presence of the conditions would preclude the
availability of the categorical exclusion.” Alaska Ctr. for the
Env’t v. U.S. Forest Serv., 189 F.3d 851, 860 (9th Cir. 1999).
Here, the Commission reasonably imposed mitigation
measures and considered those measures when concluding
there was no significant environmental impact from SpaceX’s
satellites.

                               3.

     Finally, International Dark-Sky maintains the FCC’s
reliance on the Federal Aviation Administration’s (“FAA”)
programmatic environmental assessment cannot be reconciled
with 47 C.F.R. § 1.1311(e). An agency action based on a
flawed interpretation of a statute or regulation is contrary to
law. See CREW v. FEC, 993 F.3d 880, 892 (D.C. Cir. 2021).

     An applicant “need not … submit[]” an environmental
assessment to the FCC “if another agency … has assumed
responsibility for determining whether [the action] … will
have a significant effect on the” environment. 47 C.F.R.
§ 1.1311(e). Following this regulatory directive, the FCC
concluded that it “need not conduct an environmental review
of the Gen2 Starlink satellite launch activity” because the FAA
had already completed a review and concluded the launches
“would not significantly affect the quality of the human
                              21
environment.” Moreover, SpaceX was involved in the FAA’s
programmatic environmental assessment. The Commission
expressed its “confidence the FAA ha[d] conducted, and will
continue to conduct as necessary, thorough environmental
reviews of SpaceX’s launch activities.”

     International Dark-Sky argues the Commission could not
rely on the FAA’s assessment because the FAA did not assume
responsibility for the environmental review of SpaceX’s
satellite license, the agency action at issue here, and the FAA
was required to “assum[e] responsibility” as a precondition of
the Commission’s reliance. We decline to adopt this overly
literal reading of the NEPA regulations. The Commission
relied on the FAA’s assessment only when considering the
environmental impact of SpaceX’s rocket launches. And the
FAA in fact conducted an environmental review of those
launches, pursuant to its statutory authority. See 51 U.S.C.
§ 50901(b)(3). The Commission’s reliance on the FAA’s
environmental review was therefore reasonable and consistent
with its regulatory requirements.

     In sum, we reject International Dark-Sky’s claims because
the FCC’s determination that Gen2 Starlink would not have a
significant environmental impact was reasonable, reasonably
explained, and consistent with the Commission’s legal
obligations.

                            ***

     For the foregoing reasons, we affirm the FCC’s order
licensing SpaceX’s Gen2 Starlink satellites.

                                                   So ordered.
