                      United States Court of Appeals
                                 FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT
                                          ____________
No. 24-1113                                                     September Term, 2024
                                                                        DOJ-Pub. L. No. 118-50
                                                           Filed On: December 13, 2024
TikTok Inc. and ByteDance Ltd.,

                 Petitioners

        v.

Merrick B. Garland, in his official capacity as
Attorney General of the United States,

                 Respondent


------------------------------

Consolidated with 24-1130, 24-1183


        BEFORE:           Srinivasan, Chief Judge; Rao, Circuit Judge; and Ginsburg, Senior
                          Circuit Judge

                                             ORDER

       Upon considering the motions for a preliminary injunction of the Protecting
Americans from Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act, Pub. L. No. 118-50, div.
H, the response from the Government, and the replies from the petitioners, it is

       ORDERED that the motions be denied. At the request of the parties, this court
expedited its consideration of the case “to ensure that there is adequate time before the
Act’s prohibitions take effect to request emergency relief from the Supreme Court.” Joint
Mot. to Set Briefing and Oral Argument Schedule 8 (May 17, 2024). Consistent with the
schedule proposed by the parties, on December 6, 2024 this court unanimously upheld
the constitutionality of the Act with respect to each claim presented by the petitioners
and denied as moot the petitioners’ alternative requests for a temporary injunction and
to appoint a special master.

       The petitioners now seek a “temporary pause” in order “to create time for further
deliberation.” They argue the injunction will “permit the Supreme Court to consider this
case in a more orderly fashion” and “give the incoming Administration time to determine
its position on this exceptionally important matter.” The petitioners are not, however,
“merely seeking a stay of [this] court’s order, but an injunction against the enforcement
of a presumptively valid Act of Congress.” Turner Broad. Sys., Inc. v. FCC, 507 U.S.
1301, 1302 (1993) (Rehnquist, C.J., in chambers). Such a “temporary injunction against
                 United States Court of Appeals
                            FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT
                                     ____________
No. 24-1113                                                September Term, 2024

enforcement is in reality a suspension of an act, delaying the date selected by Congress
to put its chosen policies into effect.” Heart of Atlanta Motel, Inc. v. United States, 85
S. Ct. 1, 2 (1964) (Black, J., in chambers). That is particularly true here because the Act
reflects a deliberate choice on the part of the Congress and the President to set a firm
270-day clock — subject to one (and only one) extension of up to 90 days granted by
the President if certain conditions are satisfied — after which the prohibitions of the Act
take effect with respect to TikTok. See Op. 18–19.

       The petitioners have not identified any case in which a court, after rejecting a
constitutional challenge to an Act of Congress, has enjoined the Act from going into
effect while review is sought in the Supreme Court. The petitioners rely upon their
claims under the First Amendment to justify preliminarily enjoining the Act. As to those
claims, this court has already unanimously concluded the Act satisfies the requirements
of the First Amendment under heightened scrutiny. In light of that decision, the time
available to the petitioners to seek further review in the Supreme Court, and the interest
in preserving the Supreme Court’s discretion to determine whether and to what extent to
grant any interim injunctive relief while that Court considers a petition for a writ of
certiorari, a temporary injunction of the Act from this court is unwarranted.


                                       Per Curiam


                                                         FOR THE COURT:
                                                         Mark J. Langer, Clerk

                                                 BY:     /s/
                                                         Laura M. Morgan
                                                         Deputy Clerk




                                          Page 2
