 United States Court of Appeals
         FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT



Argued October 20, 2023                 Decided July 5, 2024

                        No. 23-1052

    EVERGREEN SHIPPING AGENCY (AMERICA) CORP. AND
       EVERGREEN LINE JOINT SERVICE AGREEMENT,
                     PETITIONERS

                             v.

  FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION AND UNITED STATES OF
                     AMERICA,
                    RESPONDENTS


             On Petition for Review of an Order
            of the Federal Maritime Commission



     Robert K. Magovern argued the cause and filed the briefs
for petitioners.

     Catherine E. Stetson and Sean Marotta were on the brief
for amici curiae World Shipping Council, et al. in support of
petitioners.

    Phillip AChris@ Hughey, General Counsel, Federal
Maritime Commission, argued the cause for respondents. With
him on the brief were Robert B. Nicholson and Robert J.
Wiggers, Attorneys, U.S. Department of Justice, and Paul A.
                               2
Schofield and Kathryn C. Buettner, Attorney-Advisors, Federal
Maritime Commission.

    Before: HENDERSON and GARCIA, Circuit Judges, and
GINSBURG, Senior Circuit Judge.

    Opinion for the Court filed by Senior Circuit Judge
Ginsburg.

     Ginsburg, Senior Circuit Judge: Under the Shipping Act
of 1984, an ocean carrier must “establish, observe, and enforce
just and reasonable regulations and practices relating to or con-
nected with receiving, handling, storing, or delivering prop-
erty.” 46 U.S.C. § 41102(c). One regulated practice is the
assessment of detention charges — fees charged by an ocean
carrier for the use of a shipping container outside a marine ter-
minal. The Federal Maritime Commission, which enforces the
Act, has promulgated an interpretive rule intended to clarify
how the Commission assesses the reasonableness of a detention
charge. 46 C.F.R. § 545.5. Applying that rule, the FMC held
the detention charges that Evergreen Shipping Agency
(America) Corp. and its affiliates collected from TCW, Inc., a
trucking company, for the late return of a container were “un-
just and unreasonable” insofar as the charges were for days
when the relevant port was closed and could not have accepted
a returned container.

     Evergreen petitioned this court for review, arguing the
Commission’s application of the interpretive rule is arbitrary
and capricious, in violation of the Administrative Procedure
Act. Because the Commission failed to respond reasonably to
Evergreen’s arguments, and adequately to analyze the incen-
tive effect of the detention charges at issue here, we grant the
petition, vacate the Commission’s order, and remand this mat-
ter to the agency for further proceedings.
                               3
            I.   Factual and Legal Background

     This case arises from the Federal Maritime Commission’s
application of its “incentive principle” to hold Evergreen’s late
fees did not provide an economic incentive for prompt return
of a container. We begin with some background.

A. The Shipping Industry

     Undergirding the shipping industry is a system for borrow-
ing and returning equipment, particularly shipping containers
and the chassis on which they are moved. For the trade route
between Asia and North America, some containers must be
shipped back to Asia empty because more goods are shipped to
than from North America. The efficiency of the system, which
the FMC terms its “freight fluidity,” depends upon prompt re-
turn to port of borrowed equipment for its shipment back to
Asia. See, e.g., Impacts of Shipping Container Shortages, De-
lays, and Increased Demand on the North American Supply
Chain: Hearing Before the Subcomm. on Coast Guard & Mari-
time Transport of the H. Comm. on Transp. & Infrastructure,
117 Cong. 39 (2021) (written statement of John W. Butler,
President & CEO, World Shipping Council).

     Any breakdown in the operation of this cycle can have
costly ripple effects. When a carrier borrows a container and
does not promptly return it, the lender has one fewer container
to use or to lease out. If the number of unreturned containers
builds up over time, then there will be a shortage in the supply
of containers available to pick up shipments. In the
Commission’s own words, “congestion begets further conges-
tion, which in turn may result in higher costs for everyone in
the supply chain.” Federal Maritime Commission, Report:
Rules, Rates, and Practices Relating to Detention, Demurrage,
                                 4
and Free Time for Containerized Imports and Exports Moving
Through Selected United States Ports, at 21 (2015). *

B. Detention Charges Under the Shipping Act

     In order to encourage the timely return of equipment,
ocean carriers impose “detention” charges, defined by the
Commission as “any charges, including ‘per diem,’ assessed by
ocean common carriers . . . related to the use of . . . shipping
containers, not including freight charges.”          46 C.F.R.
§ 545.5(b). The practice in the shipping industry is that the
party responsible for retrieving a loaded container from a port
and delivering its cargo to the addressee is allotted a certain
number of days to return the empty container and any related
equipment before detention charges begin to accrue. The
amount of this so-called “free time” is either set forth in the
ocean carrier’s “tariff” of published terms and conditions for
transportation or established by contract. Per diem detention
charges provide an incentive for the timely return of equipment
and compensate the ocean carrier for the opportunity cost of its
late return.

     The Shipping Act leaves to the Commission the determi-
nation whether a detention charge is “just and reasonable.” See
46 U.S.C. § 41102(c); see also 46 C.F.R. § 545.4. In 2016, a
group of trade associations representing a broad array of inter-
ests in the shipping industry petitioned the FMC for a rule “to
clarify what constitutes ‘just and reasonable rules and prac-
tices’ with respect to the assessment of demurrage, detention,
and per diem charges . . . when ports are congested or otherwise
inaccessible.” Petition of the Coalition for Fair Port Practices

*
 Demurrage refers to the charge the merchant pays for the use of the
space a container occupies at the port when the merchant delays in
picking it up after the expiration of its free time. Id. at 12 & n.8.
                                5
for Rulemaking; Notice of Filing and Request for Comments,
81 Fed. Reg. 95612, 95612. In response, the Commission
opened a fact-finding investigation, published a report, and is-
sued a Notice of Proposed Rule Making for the Interpretive
Rule on Demurrage and Detention Under the Shipping Act. 84
Fed. Reg. 48850, 48850–56 (2019) (to be codified at 46 C.F.R.
§ 545). The Commission adopted the final rule in 2020. See
85 Fed. Reg. 29638, 29665–66 (publishing 46 C.F.R. § 545.5).

     The aspect of the interpretive rule at issue here is the “in-
centive principle,” which provides the “reasonableness” of de-
tention charges will be judged by “the extent to which . . . [they]
are serving their intended primary purposes as financial incen-
tives to promote freight fluidity.” § 545.5(c)(1). The interpre-
tive rule also specifies that, “[a]bsent extenuating circum-
stances, practices and regulations that provide for imposition
of detention when it does not serve its incentivizing purposes,
such as when empty containers cannot be returned, are likely
to be found unreasonable.” § 545.5(c)(2)(ii). At the same time,
however, the FMC acknowledged that the rule, being interpre-
tative, did not create any new “requirements,” “mandates,” or
“dictates”; on the contrary, it specifically rejected some com-
menters’ requests for a “bright line rule.” 85 Fed. Reg. at
29642, 29654 (explanation accompanying the final interpretive
rule).

C. Evergreen’s Detention Charges

     This case involves the application of the interpretive rule
to the detention charges for which Evergreen invoiced TCW,
Inc. for the late return of a container and vehicle chassis.
Yamaha Motor Company, Ltd., the shipper, had entered into an
agreement for Evergreen to transport motorcycles from the Port
of Shimizu, Japan to its warehouse in Newnan, Georgia, via the
Port of Savannah. Evergreen handled the ocean portion of the
                                6
journey; for ground transportation (from the Port of Savannah
to Newnan), Yamaha designated TCW as its “Preferred
Trucker.” Under the governing contract, TCW had 21 days of
free time for Evergreen’s container and four days of free time
for its chassis; thereafter, detention charges of $150 and $20
would accrue for the container and the chassis respectively
every calendar day, including weekends and holidays.

     TCW picked up the container and chassis from the port on
April 28, 2020. Due to a COVID-related closure at the Yamaha
warehouse in Newnan, TCW did not return the chassis and con-
tainer to the port until May 26, which was seven days late † for
the container and 22 days late for the chassis.

    Evergreen invoiced TCW $1,490 in detention charges.
TCW objected to the $510 charged for May 23–25, when TCW
was unable to return the equipment because the Port of
Savannah was closed. Evergreen refused to waive the charges.

     TCW paid the invoice in full and then filed a complaint
against Evergreen with the FMC small claims program. TCW
argued the $510 charge was unjust and unreasonable because
it could not have returned an empty container when the port
was closed and therefore the charge could not have been a “mo-
tivating factor for increasing cargo fluidity.” The small claims
officer issued an initial decision in favor of TCW. The
Commission then sua sponte gave notice that it intended to re-
view that decision, saying it was “particularly interested in ar-
guments regarding application of the interpretive rule on de-
murrage and detention.”

†
  Because the four days of free time for the chassis would have
expired on a weekend, per the governing contract, free time for the
chassis did not expire until the following Monday, May 4 (six days
after TCW took possession).
                               7

D. The Commission’s Order

     In December 2022, the Commission issued its Order
Affirming the Initial Decision, over a dissent by Commissioner
Bentzel. TCW, Inc. v. Evergreen Shipping Agency (Am.) Corp.,
No. 1966(I), 2022 WL 18068977 (Dec. 29, 2022). Regarding
the propriety of Evergreen’s assessed detention charges, the
FMC underscored that “during the rulemaking the Commission
was clear that no amount of detention can incentivize the return
of a container when the terminal cannot accept the container.”
Id. at *5. The FMC also rejected the argument that failing to
impose detention charges during the May 23–25 port closure
“would have disincentivized the return of the container before
the closure,” noting that “[t]hese arguments were previously
raised and similarly dismissed during the rulemaking process”
and that the “disincentivizing argument neglects the commer-
cial incentives to returning empty containers.” Id. at *6.
Without explaining what those commercial incentives might
be, the FMC then dismissed Evergreen’s argument that TCW
“could have returned the container prior to May 23–25.” Id.

     Dissenting Commissioner Bentzel reasoned that the “in-
centive principle” in the interpretive rule did not displace the
“reasonableness” standard in the Shipping Act. Id. at *10. In
his view, the Commission was “at risk of overstating the man-
ufactured [incentive] principle at the peril of usurping reason-
ableness.” Id. at *11. He thought the Commission was “overly
concerned with the methodology of assessing detention”
charges rather than asking whether the charges “reasonably
achieved the objective of providing fluidity of movement of
cargo.” Id.

    In any event, Commissioner Bentzel would have held
Evergreen’s detention charges were consistent with the incen-
                                 8
tive principle: TCW had notice of the weekend closure before
it picked up the container bound for Newnan; it had “a reason-
able amount of time” in which to return the equipment; and
“there were no issues that were beyond or outside of the control
of [TCW] justifying the denial of detention penalties.” Id. at
*11–12. “In essence, [TCW] knew when the [Port] was closed
and failed to timely re-deliver [Evergreen’s equipment] before
the stipulated time.” Id. at *11.

                          II. Analysis

     Our review under the “arbitrary and capricious” standard
is deferential, 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A), but we nonetheless require
the Commission to articulate “a satisfactory explanation for its
action including a rational connection between the facts found
and the choice made.” Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Ass’n of U.S. v.
State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co., 463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983)
(cleaned up). An agency action is arbitrary and capricious if
the agency has:

      entirely failed to consider an important aspect of the prob-
      lem, offered an explanation for its decision that runs coun-
      ter to the evidence before the agency, or is so implausible
      that it could not be ascribed to a difference in view or the
      product of agency expertise.

Id.

     Evergreen faults the FMC’s Order on all fronts: It argues
the Commission failed to consider relevant factors owing to its
myopic focus on the incentive principle, did not give a rea-
soned explanation for several aspects of its decision, and ap-
plied the incentive principle in defiance of common sense to
reach an illogical result. We agree. Indeed, the FMC’s failure
to respond in any meaningful way to most of Evergreen’s ar-
                                9
guments is itself arbitrary and capricious. See PPL Wallingford
Energy LLC v. FERC, 419 F.3d 1194, 1198 (D.C. Cir. 2005).

A. Failure to Consider Relevant Facts

     Evergreen argues the Commission failed to take account
of “several critical facts and extenuating circumstances” in de-
termining whether the detention charges for May 23–25 were
just and reasonable, including: (1) Evergreen’s allotment of 21
days of free time for the container and four days of free time
for the chassis, which TCW does not claim was unreasonable;
(2) TCW’s contractual obligation to pay detention charges after
the expiration of free time; (3) the Port of Savannah had an-
nounced, before TCW took the container, the days on which it
would be closed; and (4) free time on both the chassis and con-
tainer had expired before the May 23–25 closures.

     Although the Commission acknowledged these points in
passing, TCW, Inc., 2022 WL 18068977 at *5–6, it did not ex-
plain why they either were not relevant to whether the detention
charges were just and reasonable or were outweighed by coun-
tervailing considerations. Instead, the Commission merely
noted that “[t]hese arguments were previously raised and sim-
ilarly dismissed during the rulemaking process,” and that “dur-
ing the rulemaking the Commission was clear that no amount
of detention can incentivize the return of a container when the
terminal cannot accept the container.” Id.

     In effect, the Commission treated the incentive principle
as just the sort of “bright line” rule it had denied creating when
adopting the rule. Yet, as the Commission itself noted when it
published the rule, and as Commissioner Bentzel explained in
his dissent, an interpretive rule does not create any legal obli-
gations; “terms such as ‘incentive principle’ do not replace
                               10
‘reasonableness’ which is the underpinning of the Shipping
Act.” Id. at *10; 85 Fed. Reg. at 29642.

     Accordingly, the Commission, in adopting the interpretive
rule, had said it “would consider any additional or countervail-
ing arguments or evidence raised by the parties in a particular
case,” and that each “case would continue to be decided on [its]
particular facts.” 85 Fed. Reg. at 29641. The interpretive rule
reflects this commitment by expressly opening the door to un-
anticipated circumstances, such as those Evergreen presented
in this case: “Nothing in this rule precludes the Commission
from considering factors, arguments, and evidence in addition
to those specifically listed in this rule.” 46 C.F.R. § 545.5(f);
see also id. § 545.5(c)(2)(ii) (noting that “extenuating circum-
stances” would be considered). In fact, the Commission ex-
plained in the rule that detention fees may be unreasonable in
certain situations, including “uncommunicated or untimely
communicated notice of terminal closures,” 85 Fed. Reg. at
29655, which suggests that whether the Port of Savannah had
communicated its closure to TCW is relevant to the reasona-
bleness of the fees. It was arbitrary and capricious for the FMC
to commit to making a circumstantial, fact-bound inquiry in the
interpretive rule and then, when it came time to apply the rule,
to jettison all but its favorite factor.

B. Illogical Application of the Incentive Principle

     For those of Evergreen’s arguments to which the FMC did
respond, its reasoning is, charitably put, implausible. Bright
line rule or not, the Commission errs insofar as it maintains a
detention charge necessarily lacks any incentivizing effect be-
cause it is levied for a day on which a container cannot be re-
turned to a marine terminal. On the contrary, being charged for
detention during a port closing announced before the carrier
                                11
picks up the equipment heightens the incentive to return equip-
ment on time.

     The illogic of the FMC’s position is illustrated by the very
reason it offered in its support, to wit, the need to “consider the
broader context of freight fluidity throughout the supply chain
— such as potential logjams if there is a rush to get equipment
in before a weekend closure.” Br. of Resp’t 16. If the
Commission is right that there is no incentivizing effect from
charging detention fees on a weekend when a port is closed,
then why would there be a logjam to avoid the detention
charge?      This logical inconsistency alone renders the
Commission’s Order arbitrary and capricious. See Am. Fed’n
of Gov’t Emps. v. FLRA, 470 F.3d 375, 380 (D.C. Cir. 2006)
(“Certainly, if the result reached is illogical on its own terms,
the [agency’s] order is arbitrary and capricious.” (cleaned up)).

     Under the APA, the Commission cannot rest upon a bare
assertion that a detention charge assessed for a day when a port
is closed has no incentivizing effect. It must, at a minimum,
provide a logical explanation for its view. Perhaps it can do so
on remand, but so far it has done the very opposite.

                        III. Conclusion

    For the foregoing reasons, we grant the petition for review,
vacate the Commission’s order, and remand this matter to the
agency for further proceedings.

                                                So ordered.
