               FOR PUBLICATION

  UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
       FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE            Nos.   23-55157
DISTRICT, DBA Kaweah Delta                 23-55209
Medical Center; ANTELOPE
VALLEY HEALTHCARE                      D.C. No.
DISTRICT, DBA Antelope Valley       2:20-cv-06564-
Hospital; COUNTY OF SAN                CBM-SP
BERNARDINO; HEART HOSPITAL
OF BK, LLC, DBA Bakersfield Heart
Hospital; BEVERLY COMMUNITY           OPINION
HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION, DBA
Beverly Hospital; CASA COLINA
HOSPITAL AND CENTERS FOR
HEALTHCARE, DBA Casa Colina
Hospital; CHINESE HOSPITAL
ASSOCIATION, DBA Chinese
Hospital; CMCM, INC., DBA College
Hospital Costa Mesa; CHLB, LLC,
DBA College Medical Center;
COMMUNITY MEMORIAL
HEALTH SYSTEM, DBA
Community Memorial Hospital San
Buenaventura; COMMUNITY
HOSPITAL OF THE MONTEREY
PENINSULA; COUNTY OF
CONTRA COSTA, DBA Contra
Costa Regional Medical Center;
DAMERON HOSPITAL
2     KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA


ASSOCIATION, DBA Dameron
Hospital; EISENHOWER MEDICAL
CENTER; EL CAMINO HOSPITAL;
CITY OF EL CENTRO, DBA El
Centro Regional Medical Center;
ENLOE MEDICAL CENTER; GOOD
SAMARITAN HOSPITAL, a
California Limited Partnership; SAN
BENITO HEALTH CARE
DISTRICT, DBA Hazel Hawkins
Memorial Hospital; HENRY MAYO
NEWHALL MEMORIAL
HOSPITAL, DBA Henry Mayo
Newhall Hospital; CHA
HOLLYWOOD MEDICAL
CENTER, L.P., DBA Hollywood
Presbyterian Medical Center;
PASADENA HOSPITAL
ASSOCIATION, Ltd., DBA
Huntington Hospital, AKA Huntington
Memorial Hospital; KERN COUNTY
HOSPITAL AUTHORITY, DBA
Kern Medical Center; LOMPOC
VALLEY MEDICAL CENTER;
AMERICAN HOSPITAL
MANAGEMENT CORPORATION,
DBA Mad River Community Hospital;
MADERA COMMUNITY
HOSPITAL; MARIN GENERAL
HOSPITAL, DBA MarinHealth
Medical Center; MARSHALL
MEDICAL CENTER; MARTIN
LUTHER KING JR.- LOS ANGELES
       KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA   3


MLK-LA HEALTHCARE
CORPORATION, DBA Martin Luther
King, Jr. Community Hospital;
METHODIST HOSPITAL OF
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA;
DEANCO HEALTHCARE, LLC,
DBA Mission Community Hospital;
COUNTY OF MONTEREY, DBA
Natividad Medical Center;
NORTHBAY HEALTHCARE
GROUP, DBA Northbay Medical
Center; OAK VALLEY HOSPITAL
DISTRICT; OROVILLE HOSPITAL;
PACIFICA OF THE VALLEY
CORPORATION, DBA Pacifica
Hospital of the Valley; PIONEERS
MEMORIAL HEALTHCARE
DISTRICT; POMONA VALLEY
HOSPITAL MEDICAL CENTER;
REDLANDS COMMUNITY
HOSPITAL; COUNTY OF
RIVERSIDE, AKA Riverside County
Regional Medical Center, DBA
Riverside University Health Systems -
Medical Center; SALINAS VALLEY
MEMORIAL HEALTH CARE
SYSTEM, DBA Salinas Valley
Memorial Hospital; SAN ANTONIO
REGIONAL HOSPITAL, INC., DBA
San Antonio Regional Hospital; SAN
GORGONIO MEMORIAL
HEALTHCARE DISTRICT, DBA
San Gorgonio Memorial Hospital;
4        KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA


COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, DBA
San Mateo Medical Center; COUNTY
OF SANTA CLARA, DBA O'Connor
Hospital, DBA Santa Clara Valley
Medical Center, DBA St. Louise
Regional Hospital; SIERRA VIEW
LOCAL HEALTH CARE DISTRICT,
DBA Sierra View Local Health Care
District; SOMONA VALLEY
HEALTH CARE DISTRICT, DBA
Somona Valley Hospital; SAINT
AGNES MEDICAL CENTER; TRI-
CITY HOSPITAL DISTRICT, DBA
Tri-City Medical Center; VALLEY
PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL;
WASHINGTON TOWNSHIP
HEALTH CARE DISTRICT, DBA
Washington Hospital;
WATSONVILLE HOSPITAL
CORPORATION, DBA Watsonville
Community Hospital; COUNTY OF
VENTURA, doing business as
Ventura County Medical Center,

                Plaintiffs-Appellees /
                Cross-Appellants,

    v.

XAVIER BECERRA, United States
Department of Health and Human
Services, in his official capacity,
         KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA                5


                 Defendant-Appellant /
                 Cross-Appellee.

        Appeal from the United States District Court
            for the Central District of California
       Consuelo B. Marshall, District Judge, Presiding

          Argued and Submitted February 16, 2024
                   Pasadena, California

                    Filed December 11, 2024

     Before: Danny J. Boggs, * Jacqueline H. Nguyen, and
              Kenneth K. Lee, Circuit Judges.

                     Opinion by Judge Lee;
                    Dissent by Judge Nguyen


                          SUMMARY **


                             Medicare

    The panel affirmed the district court’s holding that the
Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) lacked the
authority to implement its low-wage-index policy—which
boosted the wage index, and thus the Medicare

*
 The Honorable Danny J. Boggs, United States Circuit Judge for the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, sitting by designation.
**
  This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
6      KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA


reimbursement rate, for lower-wage hospitals—and vacated
the district court’s decision to remand the case back to the
agency without vacating the policy.
    Medicare reimburses hospitals based on a standardized
rate for medical services, except that the rate must be
adjusted for regional wage differences. Congress directed
HHS to establish a “wage index” that reflects area wage
differences and to adjust Medicare payment rates
accordingly. In 2020, HHS adjusted the wage index by
inflating the Medicare payment rates for the lowest quartile
of hospitals, and paid for it by reducing payments to all
hospitals by a small percentage.
    The parties agreed that this court had jurisdiction to hear
HHS’s appeal, which challenged the district court’s order
holding that the agency lacked authority to issue the low-
wage-index policy. The panel held that it also had
jurisdiction over the hospitals’ cross-appeal challenging the
district court’s decision to remand without vacatur because
appellate jurisdiction extends to the district court’s entire
decision.
     The panel held that the Secretary lacked statutory
authority to manipulate the wage-index values for lower-
wage hospitals to advance the policy objective of recruiting
and      retaining    medical   staff   in    lower-income
communities. The low-wage-index policy violates the plain
language of the Wage Index Provision. In addition, the
Exceptions       and    Adjustments     Provision     cannot
independently authorize the low wage index policy. An
artificially inflated wage-index for lower-wage hospitals
does not “reflect” regional wage differences, as required by
the statute. Neither the Secretary’s good intentions nor
       KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA         7


pressing policy problems can substitute for an agency’s lack
of statutory authority to act.
    The panel vacated the district court’s decision to remand
the case back to the agency without vacating the policy itself
because when an agency cannot issue the challenged policy
in another way, the only appropriate remedy is vacatur.
    Judge Nguyen dissented because the low wage index
policy is fully consistent with the statutory text. The court
should not toss out the Secretary’s plausible interpretation,
and the majority’s unnecessary rejection of the Secretary’s
policy will have drastic repercussions for vulnerable
communities.



                        COUNSEL

Lloyd A. Bookman (argued), Hooper Lundy & Bookman
PC, Los Angeles, California; David J. Vernon and Rachel L.
Zacharias, Hooper Lundy & Bookman PC, Washington,
D.C.; for Plaintiffs-Appellees.
David L. Peters (argued) and Abby C. Wright, Attorneys,
Appellate Staff, Civil Division; Brian M. Boynton, Principal
Deputy Assistant Attorney General; Garrett F. Mannchen,
Attorney, United States Department of Health and Human
Services; Susan M. Lyons, Deputy Associate General
Counsel; Janice L. Hoffman, Associate General Counsel;
Samuel R. Bagenstos, General Counsel; United States
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for Defendant-
Appellant.
8      KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA


                         OPINION

LEE, Circuit Judge:

    Medicare reimburses hospitals based on a standardized
rate for medical services—except that the rate must be
adjusted for regional wage differences. Not surprisingly,
hospitals’ labor costs—e.g., salaries for doctors, nurses, and
other staff—can vary among geographic regions. Congress
thus directed the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services (HHS) to establish a “wage index” that
“reflects” area wage differences and to adjust the Medicare
payment rates accordingly. So a hospital in a higher wage
area receives a higher reimbursement rate for its services
than one in a lower wage area.
    In 2020, the Secretary tinkered with the wage index by
inflating the Medicare payment rates for the lowest quartile
of hospitals—and paid for it by reducing payments to all the
hospitals by a small percentage. The Secretary believed that
boosting the wage index (and thus the payment rate) for
lower-wage hospitals would help them recruit and retain
medical staff in lower-income, and often rural, communities.
But the Secretary lacks statutory authority to manipulate the
wage-index values for lower-wage hospitals to advance this
policy objective. Simply put, an artificially inflated wage
index for lower-wage hospitals does not “reflect” regional
wage differences, as required under the statute. While the
Secretary may have had a laudable goal in tilting the wage
index in favor of the lower-wage hospitals, Congress did not
empower him to do so. And under our system of separation
of powers, neither good intentions nor pressing policy
problems can substitute for an agency’s lack of statutory
authority to act.
       KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA          9


    We thus affirm the district court’s holding that the
Secretary exceeded his statutory authority in establishing the
2020 wage index. But we vacate the district court’s decision
to remand the case back to the agency without vacating the
policy itself. When an agency cannot issue the challenged
policy in another way, the only appropriate remedy is
vacatur.
                     BACKGROUND
  A. The Medicare System’s Prospective Payment
     System
    Congress charged HHS with administering Medicare, a
sprawling federal health-insurance program for seniors and
younger people with certain disabilities. Anna Jacques
Hosp. v. Burwell, 797 F.3d 1155, 1157 (D.C. Cir. 2015). As
one can imagine, this is not a simple task. This case is about
only “Part A” of Medicare, which covers a person’s
“inpatient” care (the care that a person receives at a hospital
or in a skilled nursing facility). Parts of Medicare,
Medicare.gov,                     available                  at
https://www.medicare.gov/basics/get-started-with-
medicare/medicare-basics/parts-of-medicare.
    Medicare originally paid hospitals the “reasonable costs”
of providing care. Anna Jacques, 797 F.3d at 1157.
Congress eventually realized that the reasonable-cost
framework lacked adequate incentives for hospitals to
operate efficiently. So, in 1983, Congress enacted the
Prospective Payment System as the main method of paying
for care. Se. Ala. Med. Ctr. v. Sebelius, 572 F.3d 912, 914
(D.C. Cir. 2009).
    The goal of the Prospective Payment System is simple:
“reform the financial incentives hospitals face and promote
10     KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA


efficiency in the provision of services.” Anna Jacques, 797
F.3d at 1158 (cleaned up). Under the new system, a
hospital’s payments are tied to the national average cost of
treating a patient in a particular “diagnosis-related group”
(DRG) according to a preestablished formula, regardless of
the actual costs incurred by the hospital in treating that
patient. 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d). Put in simple terms, the
agency sets a flat sum for a particular medical service based
in part on the national average cost, and then pays hospitals
that amount for the service.
    But Congress also recognized that the average cost of
treating a patient varies across the country because hospitals
in more expensive areas typically have higher wage-related
costs. See Anna Jacques, 797 F.3d at 1157–58. For
example, a hospital in northern Virginia likely pays higher
salaries to doctors, nurses, and other staff than a hospital in
a small town in West Virginia does. To account for these
cost disparities, the statute requires HHS to calculate a
“wage index” that compares hospital wages within defined
geographic areas to a national average and to adjust
Medicare payments accordingly.                Id. at 1158;
§ 1395ww(d)(3)(E)(i). Thus, hospitals in high-wage areas
receive larger payments than those in low-wage areas. An
area with a wage level equal to the national average wage
has a wage-index value of one; lower-wage areas have a
value of less than one; and higher-wage areas have a value
of greater than one. Anna Jacques, 797 F.3d at 1159.
  B. The Wage Index Provision and the Exceptions and
     Adjustments Provision
    There are two relevant Medicare statutory provisions at
issue that we will describe as the “Wage Index Provision”
and the “Exceptions and Adjustments Provision.”
       KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA         11


   1. The Wage Index Provision
    The Wage Index Provision directs the Secretary how to
calculate the wage index each year:

       [T]he Secretary shall adjust the proportion,
       (as estimated by the Secretary from time to
       time) of hospitals’ costs which are
       attributable to wages and wage-related costs,
       of the DRG [Diagnosis-Related Group]
       prospective payment rates computed under
       subparagraph (D) for area differences in
       hospital wage levels by a factor (established
       by the Secretary) reflecting the relative
       hospital wage level in the geographic area of
       the hospital compared to the national average
       hospital wage level. Not later than October 1,
       1990, and October 1, 1993 (and at least every
       12 months thereafter), the Secretary shall
       update the factor under the preceding
       sentence on the basis of a survey conducted
       by the Secretary (and updated as appropriate)
       of the wages and wage-related costs of
       subsection (d) hospitals in the United States.

42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(3)(E)(i). HHS creates the wage
index through annual notice-and-comment rulemaking.
Southeast Alabama, 572 F.3d at 914. All adjustments to the
wage index must be budget neutral, meaning that if some
hospitals get a bump upward in the reimbursement rate, then
other hospitals must have their rates reduced to pay for it. 42
U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(3)(E)(i).
    Although § 1395ww(d)(3)(E) is “hardly a paragon of
clarity, the bottom line is as follows: The statute first
12      KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA


requires HHS to determine the Proportion of the DRG
reimbursement that is attributable to wages and wage-related
costs.” Southeast Alabama, 572 F.3d at 915. Then, HHS
must “adjust that Proportion by a Factor reflecting the
relative hospital wage level in the hospital’s geographic area
as compared to the national average hospital wage level.” Id.
In other words, the agency must first isolate the wage cost
portion of the Medicare reimbursement, and then adjust that
amount based on the area’s hospital-wage level compared to
the national level.
     To adjust the Medicare payment rate based on regional
wage differences, HHS first conducts an annual survey of
hospitals’ wages and wage-related costs. It compiles wage
data from cost reports submitted by hospitals and uses that
data as the basis for the wage index. But because of the time
it takes to collect, verify, and analyze the data, HHS typically
uses three-year-old data to create the wage index. This data
lag means that increases in an area’s relative wages will not
be reflected in that area’s wage-index factor until four years
later.
     2. The Exceptions and Adjustments Provision.
    This provision allows the Secretary to provide “by
regulation for such other exceptions and adjustments to such
payment amounts under this subsection as the Secretary
deems appropriate.”       42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(5)(I)(i).
Courts have blessed the use of this section to make relatively
minor changes to payment amounts. See, e.g., Shands
Jacksonville Med. Ctr. v. Burwell, 139 F. Supp. 3d 240, 259–
60 (D.D.C. 2015) (collecting cases showing adjustments are
acceptable so long as they are minor enough to be fairly
characterized as only “adjustments”). The provision,
       KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA       13


however, “does not give the Secretary carte blanche to
override the rest of the Act.” Id.
 C. The 2020 Wage Index
    In 2020, HHS proposed its “low wage index policy.”
The policy adjusts the lowest quartile of wage index values
upward to the point halfway between their actual value and
the 25th percentile value. To take HHS’s example:

       If the wage index value for a given hospital
       would be 0.6663, and the 25th percentile
       wage index value for FY 2020 is 0.8482, then
       half the difference between the otherwise
       applicable wage index value and the 25th
       percentile wage index value is 0.0910 (that is,
       (0.8482 - 0.6663)/2). Under the proposal, the
       wage index value for the hospital would then
       be .7573 (that is, 0.6663 + 0.0910).

In this example, the low wage index policy would essentially
boost a hospital’s wage-related payment by about 13.6%
(that is, 0.0910/0.6663). But the policy always maintains the
rank order of wage-index values—meaning that a hospital
with a higher wage level will always receive a larger
payment than a hospital with a lower wage level.
    HHS maintains that the low-wage-index policy is
necessary to address “growing disparities between low and
high wage index hospitals.” These disparities, according to
HHS, were purportedly caused by the wage index’s data lag,
which “create[d] barriers to hospitals with low wage index
values from being able to increase employee compensation.”
In real-life terms, hospitals in low-wage areas face
headwinds recruiting and retaining medical staff because
14     KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA


they must compete with hospitals in higher wage regions that
offer more lucrative compensation, according to HHS. And
the agency crafted the low-wage-index policy to combat this
problem.
    To maintain budget neutrality after bumping up the
reimbursement rate for the low-wage hospitals, HHS
reduced payments to all hospitals by 0.2016%. Plaintiffs—
a group of 53 California hospitals—allege that their
Medicare payments were reduced by around $3.8 million.
  D. Procedural History
    Plaintiffs administratively challenged HHS’s authority
to implement the low-wage-index policy, particularly its
budget-neutrality adjustment that led to lower payment rates.
After the Provider Reimbursement Review Board granted
expedited judicial review, the hospitals sued in district court
under the Administrative Procedure Act, alleging (among
other things) that the low-wage-index policy: (1) violates the
relevant statutory provisions; (2) is arbitrary and capricious;
(3) results from a faulty administrative procedure, and (4) is
unsupported by evidence in the record. HHS responded that
the low-wage-index policy is independently authorized by
either the Wage Index Provision or the Exceptions and
Adjustments Provision.
    The district court denied HHS’s motion for summary
judgment, granted the hospitals’ motion for summary
judgment, and remanded the matter to the Secretary “for
further proceedings consistent with [its] Order.” The court
held that HHS lacked authority to implement the low-wage-
index policy under either the Wage Index Provision or the
Exceptions and Adjustments Provision. It also held that the
policy was procedurally defective to the extent that HHS
       KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA         15


rested its policy on the Exceptions and Adjustments
Provision.
    Despite these fundamental issues, the district court
declined to vacate the low-wage-index policy because
“vacatur . . . creates a serious risk of disruption to the
Medicare Prospective Payment System and operation of
hospitals.” HHS timely appealed, and the hospitals timely
cross-appealed.
                       DISCUSSION
  A. We have jurisdiction over the hospitals’ cross-
     appeal.
    Although both parties agree that this court has
jurisdiction to hear HHS’s appeal under 28 U.S.C. § 1291,
they dispute whether we have appellate jurisdiction to
review the hospitals’ cross-appeal challenging the district
court’s decision to remand without vacatur.
    We agree that HHS can appeal the district court’s order
holding that the agency lacked authority to issue the low-
wage-index policy. That order is final and immediately
appealable because “agencies compelled to refashion their
own rules face the unique prospect of being deprived of
review altogether.” Alsea Valley All. v. Dep’t of Com., 358
F.3d 1181, 1184 (9th Cir. 2004); see also Crow Indian Tribe
v. United States, 965 F.3d 662, 675–76 (9th Cir. 2020)
(applying Alsea Valley); Cmty. Hosp. of Monterey Peninsula
v. Thompson, 323 F.3d 782, 789 (9th Cir. 2003) (reviewing
a district court’s order finding that the agency exceeded its
authority under the Medicare statute and remanding for
further proceedings).
   We also have jurisdiction over the hospitals’ cross-
appeal because our jurisdiction extends to the district court’s
16     KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA


entire decision. We have held that if “both the plaintiff and
the relevant agency” seek “review of the district court’s
remand order,” the order is final for both parties’ appeals.
Pit River Tribe v. U.S. Forest Serv., 615 F.3d 1069, 1076
(9th Cir. 2010) (citing City of Santa Clara v. Andrus, 572
F.2d 660, 663 (9th Cir. 1978)); see also NAACP v. U.S.
Sugar Corp., 84 F.3d 1432, 1436 (D.C. Cir. 1996) (“[W]hat
matters for the purposes of our appellate jurisdiction is
whether the district court’s decision—and not any particular
party challenging it—is properly before us, which it is as a
result of the [Agency’s] appeal.”); Cnty. of Los Angeles v.
Shalala, 192 F.3d 1005, 1012 (D.C. Cir. 1999) (explaining
that the appellate court had “jurisdiction to review the
Secretary’s appeal [of a remand order] under § 1291” and
therefore “may also consider the Hospitals’ cross-appeal”).
That is the case here.
  B. The low-wage-index policy violates the plain
     language of the Wage Index Provision.
    To defend its 2020 low-wage-index policy, HHS relies
on an argument that agencies often invoke to justify their
exercise of expansive power: “discretion.” The agency
claims that the statute gives it “discretion in determining the
nature and extent to which the wage index must approximate
relative regional wage differences.”
    But HHS is not relying on its discretion; rather, it is
exercising authority beyond what Congress gave it.
Nowhere does the Wage Index Provision empower HHS to
manipulate the wage index so that the index no longer
reflects area differences in wage levels.
       KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA       17


   1. The low-wage-index policy does not “reflect” area
      differences in hospital wage levels.
    The Wage Index Provision requires that HHS adjust the
wage index “by a factor (established by the Secretary)
reflecting the relative hospital wage level in the geographic
area of the hospital compared to the national average
hospital wage level.” 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(3)(E)(i)
(emphasis added). The central issue is this: What does
“reflect” require of HHS, and how flexible is this statutory
command? Does “reflect,” as HHS argues, permit the
agency to manipulate the wage index so long as the index
roughly resembles the real world by maintaining the rank
order of the hospitals? Or does “reflect” require that the
wage index hew more closely to real-world wage levels?
    We review de novo a district court’s statutory
interpretation, Fournier v. Sebelius, 718 F.3d 1110, 1117–18
(9th Cir. 2013) (citation omitted), and generally interpret
statutory terms according to “their ordinary, everyday
meanings.”       Scalia and Garner, Reading Law: The
Interpretation of Legal Texts at 69 (2012) (describing the
ordinary-meaning rule as “the most fundamental semantic
rule of interpretation”). To “reflect” ordinarily means “to
give back or exhibit as an image, likeness, or outline,” to
“mirror.” Reflect, Merriam-Webster Dictionary, available at
https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/reflect.        In
other words, a reasonable person would ordinarily
understand “reflect” to mean closely representing an image,
data, or other item. For example, when someone says, “our
backyard pool budget reflects the costs of supply and labor,”
we understand that budget to include those two items—and
not, say, swim safety lessons, as important as they may be.
18      KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA


    HHS’s low-wage-index policy—and its resulting
payment increase for the bottom quartile hospitals—does not
“reflect” area differences in hospital-wage levels. Rather,
the manipulated index reflects HHS’s policy goal—however
well-intentioned it may be—of helping hospitals in low-
wage areas increase their ability to retain and recruit
employees. The very nature of that boost in payment reflects
something other than the regional wage differences.
    Consider this analogy: No one would say that a grocery
receipt “reflects” the price of groceries if the store gives, say,
a 13.6% discount to shoppers in the lowest quartile by
income. Some may believe that it perhaps constitutes good
public policy but the manipulated prices in that receipt do
not “reflect” real-life grocery prices. Quite the opposite—
they deliberately deviate from real-life prices. Here, too, we
cannot say that an artificial bump in payment to the low-
wage hospitals “reflects” regional hospital-wage
differences. Indeed, both the purpose and effect of HHS’s
low-wage index-policy are to deviate from—and not
reflect—the actual wage-level differences.
    HHS contends that it ensured the wage index reflected
real-world wage levels by maintaining the rank order of
hospital areas. But merely maintaining the rank order of
hospital wage-levels does not satisfy the statutory
provision’s requirement that the wage index “reflect” area
differences in hospital-wage levels. A simple example
clarifies why the meaning of “reflect” is not so pliable. Say
there are three hospitals: Hospital A pays an average wage
of $50,000 a year; Hospital B pays $100,000 a year; and
Hospital C pays $150,000 per year. The average of these
three hospitals’ wages is $100,000, and their simplified
wage-index values would thus be: 0.5 for Hospital A, 1 for
Hospital B, and 1.5 for Hospital C. HHS contends that,
       KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA          19


under the Wage Index Provision, HHS could—for
redistributive reasons—inflate Hospital A’s wage index
value to .99 and reduce Hospital C’s wage index value to
1.01. This would maintain the rank order of the hospitals
because Hospital A still receives less money than
Hospital B, which, in turn, receives less than Hospital C.
But such a distorted index hardly “reflects” the real
differences in the wage levels among the hospitals.
    To be sure, HHS correctly notes that the Wage Index
Provision does not require mathematical exactitude—and
we do not read “reflect” to mean the same as “equal,”
contrary to the dissent’s suggestion. Dissent at 35. For
example, HHS can enforce deadlines for data collection even
though those deadlines may lead to a wage index based on
imperfect data. See Baystate Franklin Med. Ctr. v. Azar, 950
F.3d 84, 93 (D.C. Cir. 2020) (HHS may “balance accuracy
against finality and efficiency.”). It can also make minor
technical changes to reflect more accurate data or enhance
the index’s administrability. See, e.g., Anna Jacques Hosp.
v. Sebelius, 583 F.3d 1, 5–6 (D.C. Cir. 2009) (permitting
HHS to remove data from its survey that is incomplete,
inaccurate, or otherwise aberrant); Anna Jacques, 797 F.3d
at 1157 (permitting HHS to change the geographic areas
used to calculate the wage index and to treat multi-campus
hospitals as if they only had one main campus).
    In sum, a reasonable and ordinary understanding of the
statutory term “reflect” does not require exact numerical
precision, but it cannot be so elastic as to smuggle in a costly
policy goal not authorized by the statutory provision—no
matter how worthwhile that goal may be. Going back to our
grocery analogy, a shopper who agrees to round up to the
nearest dollar will still likely say that the receipt “reflects”
the true cost of groceries (e.g., a grocery bill of $79.80 being
20      KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA


rounded up to $80). But as noted earlier, a reasonable person
would not believe a receipt “reflects” the true price of
groceries if a shopper receives a substantial discount to
promote the policy of making groceries more affordable for
some people.
    We thus hold that the Wage Index Provision requires that
the wage index “reflect” HHS’s best estimate of the relative
wage levels of hospitals across the country—free from other
policy goals that distort, rather than reflect, the regional
wage differences. The Secretary here stretched and twisted
the plain meaning of the statutory text to pursue a policy
objective not permitted under the statute. Congress, not the
agency, has the power to bless the use of a wage index to
seek the laudable goal of helping lower-wage hospitals
recruit and retain medical staff. And to fix this policy
problem, Congress must do its job—we cannot let an agency
seize power it does not have. See THE FEDERALIST NO. 47,
at 301 (James Madison) (Clinton Rossiter ed., 1961) (“[T]he
preservation of liberty requires that the three great
departments of power should be separate and distinct.”); cf.
James Kerr, How Bill Belichick’s ‘Do Your Job’ Mantra
Applies to Leadership, INC., Jan. 26, 2015,
https://www.inc.com/james-kerr/how-do-your-job-can-be-
a-difference-maker-for-your-company.html (last visited
Dec. 2, 2024).
     2. HHS’s selective adjustment of the wage index does
        not reflect a predictive judgment of regional wage
        differences.
    Perhaps recognizing that its policy-driven justification
for its 2020 wage index is unmoored from the statutory text,
HHS offers an argument more rooted in the statutory goal of
considering regional wage differences: It argues that the pay
       KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA        21


bump was necessary because it has “discretionary authority
. . . to make predictive judgments regarding whether historic
data adequately captures current and future regional wage
disparities.” As noted earlier, it takes HHS three years to
collect, verify, and analyze data for creating the wage index.
HHS thus claims that the wage index is essentially outdated
(by four years) and that it was using its “predictive
judgment” to calculate a more accurate wage index that in
fact reflects current regional hospital-wage differences.
    Even if the Wage Index Provision were to permit such
predictive judgments, the low-wage-index policy does not
calculate a more accurate or reflective wage index. As HHS
admits, the data lag by definition affects all hospitals, not
just the bottom-quartile hospitals, because the wage index is
based on historical data for all hospitals. The data lag thus
harms any hospital that raises wages because that hospital’s
wage-index factor is based on years-old data. And on the
flip side, the data lag helps any hospital that recently
decreased its wages because that decrease is also not
contemporaneously reflected in its Medicare payments. Yet
HHS’s low-wage-index policy selectively corrects the data
lag for only 25% of hospitals, undermining its claim that it
is exercising its predictive judgment of regional wage
differences. Thus, this preferential adjustment of the data
lag for only some hospitals does not “reflect” nationwide
area differences in hospital-wage levels, as mandated by the
statute.
   3. The wage index must be calculated uniformly.
    Lastly, HHS’s argument violates the statutory
requirement of a single wage index that applies to all
hospitals and betrays an equal-treatment principle inherent
in the text of the statute. See Atrium Med. Ctr. v. U.S. Dep’t
22     KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA


of Health & Hum. Servs., 766 F.3d 560, 569 (6th Cir. 2014).
Congress consistently used “the singular—‘the proportion’
and ‘a factor’—indicat[ing] that the wage index must be
uniformly determined and applied.” Id. (citing Sarasota
Mem’l Hosp. v. Shalala, 60 F.3d 1507, 1513 (11th Cir.
1995)). HHS thus must create a “uniform picture” of wage
levels and a “uniform index” to calculate hospitals’
payments. Sarasota Memorial, 60 F.3d at 1513. For
example, if HHS classifies a certain compensation as a
“fringe benefit” and thus excludes it from the wage index for
one hospital, then HHS must do the same for all hospitals.
Id.
    The Wage Index Provision thus requires that HHS
establish “the” national average hospital-wage level and use
that average as the baseline from which to create the wage
index. See Bridgeport Hosp. v. Becerra, 589 F. Supp. 3d 1,
11 (D.D.C. 2022). The provision’s use of the phrase “‘the
relative hospital wage level’” further “indicates that
Congress intended that there would be a single wage index—
determined on the basis of data gleaned from a survey” that
applies to all hospitals.        Id. (quoting 42 U.S.C.
§ 1395ww(d)(H)).
    Here, HHS calculated the uniform wage index and then
manipulated that calculation for the bottom 25% of hospitals
only. This manipulation effectively creates two separate
wage indexes: one index for the bottom quartile of hospitals
and another for everyone else. As the D.C. Circuit
recognized in a parallel challenge to the low-wage-index
policy, such distortion—besides violating the statute’s
requirement that the wage index reflect area wage
differences—violates the statutory requirement of a single
wage index. See Bridgeport Hosp. v. Becerra, No. 22-5249,
2024 WL 3504407, at *3–4 (D.C. Cir. July 23, 2024).
       KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA       23


 C. The Exceptions and Adjustments Provision cannot
    authorize the low wage index policy.
    HHS alternatively argues that the Exceptions and
Adjustment Provision independently authorizes the low-
wage-index policy. That provision states: “The Secretary
shall provide by regulation for such other exceptions and
adjustments to such payment amounts under this subsection
as the Secretary deems appropriate.”            42 U.S.C.
§ 1395ww(d)(5)(I)(i). Relying on this provision, HHS
maintains that the Secretary found it “appropriate” to
“adjust” the Medicare payment rate for the bottom quartile
hospitals.
   HHS’s argument founders on both statutory-construction
and separation-of-power grounds.
    First, under a well-established canon of statutory
construction, specific statutory provisions control general
ones. See Varity Corp. v. Howe, 516 U.S. 489, 511 (1996)
(“This court has understood the present canon (‘the specific
governs the general’) as a warning against applying a general
provision when doing so would undermine limitations
created by a more specific provision.”). This is especially
the case “when the two [provisions] are interrelated and
closely positioned.” HCSC-Laundry v. United States, 450
U.S. 1, 6 (1981) (per curiam).
    The broadly worded Exceptions and Adjustment
Provision cannot swallow up the more specific Wage Index
Provision. The Wage Index Provision specifically addresses
how to calculate the wage index, and (as discussed above) it
does not permit HHS to promulgate the low-wage-index
policy. § 1395ww(d)(3)(E)(i). HHS thus cannot rely on the
more general Exceptions and Adjustments Provision—
which does not set out in any detail the boundaries of the
24     KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA


Secretary’s authority—to undermine the specific
requirements of the Wage Index Provision. See UFCW
Local 1500 Pension Fund v. Mayer, 895 F.3d 695, 700 (9th
Cir. 2018) (quoting Varity Corp., 516 U.S. at 519). We thus
agree with the D.C. Circuit that HHS may not use the
Exceptions and Adjustments Provision to sweep aside the
“detailed reimbursement scheme” that Congress set out in
the exceptionally detailed Medicare statute. Bridgeport
Hosp., 2024 WL 3504407, at *6.
    Second, HHS’s reading of the statutory provision would
conflict with the nondelegation doctrine if the Secretary
could make adjustments and exceptions based on an
amorphous “as appropriate” standard.              A “statutory
delegation is constitutional as long as Congress ‘lay[s] down
by legislative act an intelligible principle to which the person
or body authorized to [exercise the delegated authority] is
directed to conform.’” Gundy v. United States, 588 U.S.
128, 135 (2019) (quoting Mistretta v. United States, 488 U.S.
361, 372 (1989)).          Although the standard is “not
demanding,” United States v. Melgar-Diaz, 2 F.4th 1263,
1267 (9th Cir. 2021), it is not meaningless either. When
Congress has “failed to articulate any policy or standard to
confine discretion,” the delegation of authority is
unconstitutional. Gundy, 588 U.S. at 146 (cleaned up).
     HHS’s interpretation of the Exceptions and Adjustments
Provision lacks an intelligible principle. The provision
merely requires that the Secretary do what he or she “deems
appropriate.” 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(5)(I)(i). To “deem”
something is to “to have an opinion.” The statute essentially
tells the Secretary to do whatever he or she thinks is right,
which does not provide an intelligible principle delineating
the scope of the statutory discretion. Cf. Gundy, 588 U.S. at
146 (allowing delegations of authority that instruct the
        KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA            25


agency to regulate in the “public interest” and “to protect the
public health”).
    Such an amorphous standard—basically, do what you
think is right—does not amount to a proper delegation of
power. Rather, when interpreted as HHS does, it represents
an abdication of responsibility by Congress and tantamount
to a blank check to the executive branch. See Gundy, 588
U.S. at 169 (Gorsuch, J., dissenting) (failing to uphold the
separation of powers “would serve only to accelerate the
flight of power from the legislative to the executive branch,
turning the latter into a vortex of authority that was
constitutionally reserved for the people’s representatives in
order to protect their liberties.”). Although we recognize
that the Secretary was, in good faith, addressing a pressing
problem here, such unrestricted power may be abused in the
future—and that is why we enforce the limitations imposed
by our system of separation of powers. As James Madison
warned, “It may be a reflection on human nature” that
separation-of-powers is “necessary to control the abuses of
government.” THE FEDERALIST NO. 51, at 319 (Clinton
Rossiter ed., 1961). Indeed, we do not even need to rely on
the wisdom of the Framers to understand this point—we
know this intuitively: In our personal lives, we would
hesitate to give a blank checkbook to even a trusted friend
with no guidance or limits (and, if we do, we may regret it
later).
    The Exceptions and Adjustments Provision thus cannot
authorize the low-wage-index policy. 1


1
  Because we determine that Section 1395ww(d)(5)(I)(i) does not
authorize the low-wage-index policy, we need not decide whether the
Secretary promulgated the low-wage-index policy “by regulation.”
26     KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA


  D. The district court erred in not vacating the low-
     wage-index policy.
    The district court remanded this matter to HHS for
further proceedings without vacating the low-wage-index
policy. The district court reasoned that “while the Secretary
committed serious error by adopting the Low Wage Index
policy which exceeded his authority under the Medicare Act
in violation of the APA, vacatur of the policy creates a
serious risk of disruption to the Medicare Prospective
Payment System and operation of hospitals.” But because
HHS has not argued that it could re-issue the low-wage-
index policy through any other means, remand without
vacatur is inappropriate.
    Section 706(2) of the APA states that if a reviewing court
finds that an agency action is “in excess of statutory
jurisdiction, authority, or limitations, or short of statutory
right” then the court “shall . . . hold unlawful and set aside”
that agency action. 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(C) (emphasis added).
We, and other courts, permit remand without vacatur only in
“limited circumstances.” Pollinator Stewardship Council v.
U.S. EPA, 806 F.3d 520, 532 (9th Cir. 2015) (citation
omitted); see also Allied-Signal, Inc. v. U.S. Nuclear Regul.
Comm’n, 988 F.2d 146, 150–51 (D.C. Cir. 1993). In such
cases, the district court must weigh the seriousness of the
agency’s errors against the disruptive impact of an interim
change. Pollinator Stewardship, 806 F.3d at 532 (citation
omitted). For example, we sometimes remand without
vacatur where the agency committed procedural error in its
notice-and-comment rulemaking, allowing the agency to
correct the issue and then (re)enact the same policy.
   But to remand without vacatur, we must first find that the
agency can correct the error on remand. See North Carolina
        KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA              27


v. EPA, 531 F.3d 896, 929 (D.C. Cir. 2008) (concluding that
the EPA’s rule “must” be vacated because “fundamental
flaws” prevented the EPA from promulgating the same rule
on remand). Here, HHS cannot correct its error on remand
because the agency lacks statutory authority to promulgate
the low-wage-index policy. See Bridgeport Hosp., 2024 WL
3504407, at *7 (holding that the low-wage-index policy
must be vacated). We thus vacate the district court’s
decision to remand without vacatur.
                        CONCLUSION
    We affirm in part, vacate in part, and remand to the
district court for further proceedings consistent with this
opinion.


NGUYEN, Circuit Judge, dissenting:

    Just because in this Loper Bright new world we are free
to ignore an agency’s statutory interpretation doesn’t mean
that we should. 1 To address the longstanding budgetary
struggles of rural hospitals, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services (“HHS”) adjusted the intricate formula for
calculating hospital reimbursements based on his reasonable
reading of the Medicare statute. The majority, despite
lacking the agency’s expertise in implementing this complex
statute, jettisons HHS’s carefully designed policy based on
its own doubtful interpretation. Because the majority
improperly constrains the agency’s ability to address a
serious structural problem, with dire consequences for the

1
  See Loper Bright Enters. v. Raimondo, 144 S. Ct. 2244, 2273 (2024)
(“[C]ourts . . . may not defer to an agency interpretation of the law
simply because a statute is ambiguous.”).
28     KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA


rural communities that will lose access to health care, I
respectfully dissent.
                              I.
                             A.
    The Medicare program reimburses hospitals for the costs
of providing inpatient healthcare services to Medicare
beneficiaries. See 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d). To incentivize
hospitals to provide efficient levels of service, Medicare
pays them a fixed rate per diagnosis for treating each covered
patient, “regardless of the hospital’s actual costs.” Becerra
v. Empire Health Found. ex rel. Valley Hosp. Med. Ctr., 597
U.S. 424, 429 (2022) (citing 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(1)–
(4)). In theory, the rates “reflect the amounts an efficiently
run hospital, in the same region, would expend to treat a
patient with the same diagnosis.” Id. In practice, however,
the system for many years has perpetuated and exacerbated
disparities between hospitals based on regional labor costs.
See Medicare Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment
Systems Proposed Policy Changes and Fiscal Year 2020
Rates (“2020 Proposed Rule”), 84 Fed. Reg. 19158, 19162
(proposed May 3, 2019).
    The root of these disparities lies in the methodology for
calculating reimbursement rates. The Secretary sets rates
prospectively before each fiscal year. See 42 U.S.C.
§ 1395ww(d)(3). As a starting point, the Secretary takes the
“standardized amount,” which is essentially hospitals’
average nationwide treatment cost for each discharged
patient, calculated in a base year and updated annually for
inflation.      See id. § 1395ww(b)(3)(B)(i), (d)(2),
(d)(3)(A)(iv)(II); Cape Cod Hosp. v. Sebelius, 630 F.3d 203,
205 (D.C. Cir. 2011). To ensure that hospitals are not
penalized for their patient mix, the standardized amount is
       KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA          29


weighted by the relative cost of treating a particular
diagnosis. See 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(4).
     At issue here, the standardized amount is also adjusted
to account for regional variations in the cost of labor. See id.
§ 1395ww(d)(3)(E)(i).         This adjustment has two
components. Because the standardized amount comprises
both labor and nonlabor costs, the Secretary must first
determine “the proportion . . . of hospitals’ costs which are
attributable to wages and wage-related costs.” Id. The
Secretary then adjusts this proportion for hospitals in each
region pursuant to a wage index of relative labor costs. See
id.
    The wage index adjustment to the standardized amount
must be budget neutral—i.e., “made in a manner that assures
that the aggregate payments . . . in the fiscal year are not
greater or less than those that would have been made in the
year without such adjustment.” Id. Thus, when some
hospitals receive more than the standardized amount because
of their region’s relatively high labor costs, other hospitals
must receive less.
    The wage index calculation is just the starting point in
adjusting reimbursement amounts based on wage
differentials and other localized concerns. In recognition of
the complex factors driving healthcare costs, Congress
provided for various regional- and hospital-specific rate
adjustments. See, e.g., 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(3)(E)(ii)–
(iv); see also Empire Health Found., 597 U.S. at 429.
Congress further directed the Secretary to “provide by
regulation for such other exceptions and adjustments to such
payment amounts . . . as the Secretary deems appropriate.”
Id. § 1395ww(d)(5)(I)(i). Collectively, these exceptions
distort the wage index. See Medicare Payment Advisory
30     KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA


Commission (“MedPAC”), Report to the Congress:
Promoting Greater Efficiency in Medicine 131 (June 15,
2007), https://perma.cc/LD32-ZFWN.
                              B.
    While the Secretary calculates the wage index
prospectively, the data driving the calculation is dated. The
Secretary conducts an annual survey of hospitals’ wages and
wage-related costs, see id. § 1395ww(d)(3)(E)(i), but it takes
HHS three years or more to collect, verify, and analyze this
data for use in the wage index. See, e.g., 2020 Final Rule,
84 Fed. Reg. at 42304 (using data from October 2015
through September 2016 for the 2020 wage index update);
see also Medicare Changes to the Hospital Inpatient
Prospective Payment Systems and Fiscal Year 2005 Rates,
69 Fed. Reg. 48916, 49049 (Aug. 11, 2004) (explaining that
“hospitals’ wage data are always 3 to 4 years old” because
of the time needed for hospitals to complete and submit cost
reports; fiscal intermediaries to perform a detailed review of
the data and submit it to the agency; and the agency to
compile a complete set of wage data from a common fiscal
year period).
    The lag between data collection and wage index
calculation (the “data lag”) impedes hospitals in low wage
areas from increasing employee compensation because they
must wait several years for their additional costs to translate
into a higher reimbursement rate. See 2020 Proposed Rule,
84 Fed. Reg. at 19394–95. Hospitals in higher wage areas,
“by virtue of higher Medicare payments,” can afford to pay
wages that maintain or improve their area’s high wage index
value notwithstanding that they are also affected by the data
lag. Id. Over time, this has led to “growing disparities
between low and high wage index hospitals, including rural
         KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA                  31


hospitals that may be in financial distress and facing
potential closure.” 2 Id. at 19395.
    The data lag is exacerbated by the “condition of
circularity” that results from the Secretary’s exclusive
reliance on hospital cost reports to calculate regional wage
differences. Id. at 19394. When a hospital successfully
restrains wage increases relative to the national average, its
wage index value decreases. MedPAC, supra, at 130. The
lower wage index value leads to lower reimbursement
amounts, creating even more pressure to reduce costs. Id.;
see 2020 Proposed Rule, 84 Fed. Reg. at 19394.
    To address this “systemic issue,” the Secretary proposed
a “low wage index policy” that, beginning in 2020, would
adjust the lowest quartile of wage index values upward to the
point halfway between their normally calculated value and
the 25th percentile value. 2020 Proposed Rule, 84 Fed. Reg.
at 19395. In other words, the policy would boost the lowest
wage index values while preserving the rank order of all
wage index values. It thus “would provide certain low wage
index hospitals with an opportunity to increase employee
compensation without the usual lag in those increases being
reflected in the calculation of the wage index.” Id.


2
  The majority rejects the agency’s factual findings and asserts, based on
no evidence, that the data lag does not affect low wage hospitals
disproportionately simply because it “affects all hospitals.” Maj. Op. at
21. But we are bound by an agency’s well-supported factual findings on
a matter within the scope of its expertise. See G.C. v. Garland, 109 F.4th
1230, 1239 (9th Cir. 2024) (“The court reviews the agency’s fact-finding
‘under the highly deferential substantial evidence standard,’ which treats
an agency’s findings of fact as conclusive unless ‘any reasonable
adjudicator would be compelled to conclude to the contrary.’” (quoting
Rodriguez-Zuniga v. Garland, 69 F.4th 1012, 1016 (9th Cir. 2023))).
32     KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA


    The Secretary envisioned that the policy would last at
least four years “to allow employee compensation increases
implemented by [low wage] hospitals sufficient time to be
reflected in the wage index calculation.” Id. at 19395. He
“intend[ed] to revisit the issue of the duration of the policy
in future rulemaking” after gaining experience. Id. The
Secretary anticipated that “there may be no need for the
continuation of the policy” after the “increased employee
compensation is reflected in the wage data” because he
“expect[ed] the resulting increases in the wage index” values
to persist. 2020 Final Rule, 84 Fed. Reg. at 42328.
    Ultimately, the Secretary adopted the low wage index
policy with one change. See id. at 42332. To maintain
budget neutrality, the Secretary had proposed making a
downward adjustment to the top quartile of wage index
values. See 2020 Proposed Rule, 84 Fed. Reg. at 19396.
Instead, the Secretary imposed “a budget neutrality
adjustment to the national standardized amount for all
hospitals.” 2020 Final Rule, 84 Fed. Reg. at 42332. In 2020,
this budget neutrality adjustment decreased the standardized
amount by just 0.2%. See id. at 42338.
                             II.
                             A.
   Subject to exceptions not at issue here, the wage index
provision directs that:

       the Secretary shall adjust the [wage-related
       portion of the standardized amount] for area
       differences in hospital wage levels by a factor
       (established by the Secretary) reflecting the
       relative hospital wage level in the geographic
        KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA               33


        area of the hospital compared to the national
        average hospital wage level.

42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(3)(E)(i). In other words, the
Secretary must establish “a factor” for each geographic area,
and it must reflect the area’s wage ratio—the area’s relative
wage level vis-à-vis the national average.
    As the Secretary points out, this language “affords [him]
discretion in determining the nature and extent to which the
wage index must approximate relative regional wage
differences.” It is replete with words that suggest a
relationship between—but not necessarily identity of—a
hospital’s wage index factor and its wage ratio.
    The critical word, as majority recognizes, is “reflecting.”
To “reflect” ordinarily means “to give back or exhibit as an
image, likeness, or outline,” i.e., to “mirror.” Reflect,
Merriam-Webster        Dictionary,     https://www.merriam-
webster.com/dictionary/reflect       [https://perma.cc/89PV-
6K3E] (last updated Jan. 16, 2024). But the image, likeness,
or outline need not recreate the original in its exact
proportions; the quintessential element of “reflect” is
ordinal—not proportional—replication. 3

3
  For example, both mirrors and maps “reflect” their source material
despite sometimes compressing certain data points more than others.
The convexity in a car’s passenger-side rearview mirror increases the
driver’s field of vision—thus, “Objects in Mirror Are Closer Than They
Appear,” 49 C.F.R. § 571.111(S5.4.2)—and the image can be distorted
by up to 12.5%, see id. § 571.111(S5.4.1). A map of former U.S. Route
66 may narrow from south to north, depending on the projection, but
regardless of its precise shape, the map will always reflect that the
highway “winds from Chicago to LA” through St. Louis, Joplin,
Oklahoma City, Amarillo, Gallup, Flagstaff, Winona, Kingman,
34      KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA


    The Secretary expressly designed the low wage index
policy to preserve hospitals’ rank order, which was a
“critical aspect” of the policy. 2020 Final Rule, 84 Fed. Reg.
at 42327. In adopting the final rule, the Secretary rejected
alternative proposals, such as a wage index floor or a policy
applicable to all hospitals that met specified criteria, that
would have disrupted the rank order. See id. at 42326,
42327. The Secretary found that “the rank order generally
reflects meaningful distinctions between the employee
compensation costs faced by hospitals in different
geographic areas.” Id. at 42326.
    Other words in the wage index provision similarly
suggest imprecision. While the word “relative” could mean
“expressed as the ratio of the specified quantity . . . to the
mean of all the quantities involved,” Relative, Merriam-
Webster Dictionary, https://www.merriam-webster.com/
dictionary/relative [https:// perma.cc/F7SY-GGFZ] (last
updated Jan. 19, 2024), that would render it superfluous to
“compared to.” The ratio would be the same if it were
“the . . . hospital wage level in the geographic area of the
hospital compared to the national average hospital wage
level.” For “relative” to do any work, it must mean that a
region’s wage index factor is “not [an] absolute” reflection
of the ratio that follows, id., but one that preserves its order
among the ratios of other regions.
   The indefinite article “a” before “factor” likewise
suggests discretion. If Congress had intended a specific
wage index value for each region, it would have directed the
Secretary to apply “the” factor reflecting the area’s
comparative wage level. See McFadden v. United States,

Barstow, and San Bernardino—in that order. The King Cole Trio, (Get
Your Kicks On) Route 66 (Capitol Records 1946).
         KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA                   35


576 U.S. 186, 191 (2015) (“When used as an indefinite
article, ‘a’ means ‘[s]ome undetermined or unspecified
particular.’” (quoting A, Webster’s New International
Dictionary 1 (2d ed. 1954))); see also United States v.
Merrell, 37 F.4th 571, 578 (9th Cir. 2022) (Boggs, J.,
dissenting) (“The use of the indefinite article in ‘a sentence’
indicates a non-specific, rather than a particular, sentence.”).
    Lastly, if the Secretary had no discretion when setting
the wage index values, it was odd for Congress to
parenthetically specify that the adjustment be by a factor
“established by the Secretary.” If Congress intended the
Secretary to mechanically apply a formula, there would be
no need for the Secretary to “establish” anything. 4
                                    B.
    The majority reads the wage index provision as if
Congress had used the phrase “equal to” rather than
“reflecting.” But Congress was surely aware of the
semantical difference. After all, some form of the word


4
  “[L]egislative history confirms that Congress intended to grant the
Secretary exceptionally broad discretion to determine the wage index—
the relevant conference report simply stated that ‘[n]o particular
methodology for developing the indices is specified.’” Atrium Med. Ctr.
v. U.S. Dep’t of Health & Human Servs., 766 F.3d 560, 568 (6th Cir.
2014) (quoting H.R. Rep. No. 100-495, at 521 (1987) (Conf. Rep.)).
When adding the wage index provision, see Social Security
Amendments of 1983, Pub. L. No. 98-21, § 601(e), 97 Stat. 65, 156,
Congress stated only that “the Secretary would adjust the part of the
payment which reflects wage and wage-related costs to reflect
differences between those costs in the area of the hospital and those costs
in hospitals in the United States generally.” H.R. Rep. No. 98-25, at
153–54 (1983). Congress later added a wage survey requirement. See
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987, Pub. L. No. 100-203,
§ 4004(a), 101 Stat. 1330, 1330-47.
36     KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA


“equal” appears in § 1395ww no less than 148 times. See,
e.g., 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(5)(B)(ii) (“For purposes of
clause (i)(II), the indirect teaching adjustment factor is equal
to cx(((1+r) to the nth power)-1), where ‘r’ is the ratio of the
hospital’s full-time equivalent interns and residents to beds
and ‘n’ equals .405. Subject to clause (ix), for discharges
occurring . . . on or after October 1, 2007, ‘c’ is equal to
1.35.”). When Congress demanded precision, it used
“equal.”
    Congress used the word “reflect” in other parts of the
statute as well, but those instances only confirm that
Congress used the word to convey discretion. See, e.g., 42
U.S.C. § 1395ww(d)(4)(A)–(C)(i) (“The Secretary shall
establish a classification of inpatient hospital discharges by
diagnosis-related groups and a methodology for classifying
specific hospital discharges within these groups. For each
such diagnosis-related group the Secretary shall assign an
appropriate weighting factor which reflects the relative
hospital resources used with respect to discharges classified
within that group compared to discharges classified within
other groups. The Secretary shall adjust the classifications
and weighting factors . . . to reflect changes in treatment
patterns, technology . . . , and other factors which may
change the relative use of hospital resources.”).
    Congress used “equal to” and “reflecting” differently,
and it did so throughout the statute. The Secretary’s
understanding of “reflecting” is consistent with this
distinction. See Bare v. Barr, 975 F.3d 952, 968 (9th Cir.
2020) (“It is a well-established canon of statutory
interpretation that the use of different words or terms within
a statute demonstrates that Congress intended to convey a
different meaning for those words.” (quoting SEC v.
McCarthy, 322 F.3d 650, 656 (9th Cir. 2003))).
         KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA                     37


     The majority acknowledges that the wage index
provision “does not require mathematical exactitude,” Maj.
Op. at 19, and suggests that the wage index need only “hew
more closely to real-world wage levels” to survive scrutiny,
id. at 17. Yet by holding that the Secretary must use his “best
estimate of the relative wage levels of hospitals across the
country” without “distort[ion],” id. at 20, the majority
precludes the Secretary from establishing any factor other
than the precise regional wage ratio. 5
    In addition, the majority erroneously faults the 2020
wage index for not being “uniformly determined and
applied.” Id. at 22 (quoting Atrium Med. Ctr., 766 F.3d at
569). This confuses the need for uniform application of the
rules—which equal protection plainly requires—with a need
for uniform rules. “The Equal Protection Clause does not
forbid classifications,” Wright v. Incline Vill. Gen.
Improvement Dist., 665 F.3d 1128, 1140 (9th Cir. 2011)
(quoting Nordlinger v. Hahn, 505 U.S. 1, 10 (1992)), and it
permits the government to treat individuals differently

5
  Even if the majority opinion could be read to allow for some discretion,
the majority provides the Secretary no guidance on its exercise. If some
distortion is allowed, then how much is too much? Take the majority’s
three-hospital example with relative wage ratios of 0.5, 1.0, and 1.5. The
majority posits that compressing these values 98% of the way to the
average wage (to values of 0.99, 1.00, and 1.01) would be too much
distortion, see Maj. Op. at 18–19, but the Secretary did nothing so
dramatic. What about—more analogous to the actual policy—a 12%
compression (to values of 0.56, 1.00, and 1.44)? The majority opines
that a grocer’s policy of “round[ing] up to the nearest dollar” would
accurately reflect “the true cost of groceries,” id. at 19, but if items cost
$0.50, $1.00, and $1.50, the grocer will charge $1 for the first two and
$2 for the third—far more distortion than in the three-hospital example.
The majority forces the Secretary to guess from these inconsistent results
how much distortion, if any, would be tolerated.
38     KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA


according to economic need so long as the policy is
“extended to all who are similarly situated.” W.C. Peacock
& Co. v. Pratt, 121 F. 772, 777 (9th Cir. 1903).
     The Secretary did not apply the rules in an arbitrary way;
he promulgated the low wage index policy to address a
specific problem as part of the overall methodology for
calculating the wage index, and he “utilized that rule
consistently and evenhandedly for all hospitals,” Anna
Jacques Hosp. v. Burwell, 797 F.3d 1155, 1172 (D.C. Cir.
2015). While only a quarter of the hospitals benefitted from
it, the policy was designed to address a problem that affected
any similarly situated hospital. Cf. id. at 1162–63, 1172–73
(upholding wage index policy designed to address issue
affecting three hospitals nationwide and impacting only
hospitals in the Boston-Quincy region). If a hospital
successfully raises wages to the extent that it no longer falls
into the lowest wage quartile in a subsequent year, it would
stop benefitting from the policy, and the hospital replacing it
in the lowest quartile would see its wage index factor
boosted. There is no evidence that the Secretary was
targeting specific hospitals for special benefits—as opposed
to any hospital that meets specific criteria.
                             III.
    Although the Secretary’s policy goals are irrelevant to
the statutory analysis, see Dep’t of Com. v. New York, 588
U.S. 752, 781 (2019), they highlight why, in close cases,
courts should not dismiss an agency’s reasonable
interpretation of the statute it administers. “[A]lthough an
agency’s interpretation of a statute ‘cannot bind a court,’ it
may be especially informative ‘to the extent it rests on
factual premises within the agency’s expertise.’” Loper
Bright, 144 S. Ct. at 2267 (cleaned up) (quoting Bureau of
       KAWEAH DELTA HEALTH CARE DISTRICT V. BECERRA         39


Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms v. FLRA, 464 U.S. 89, 98
n.8 (1983)). In the Secretary’s decades of experience
administering the wage index provision, he has observed it
wreak havoc on rural hospitals.
    Prior to 2020, “wage index policies create[d] barriers to
hospitals with low wage index values from being able to
increase employee compensation.” 2020 Final Rule, 84 Fed.
Reg. at 42326. Many of these hospitals struggled to stay
solvent. More than a third of those in the lowest quartile of
wage index values had negative profit margins in 2016, the
most recent year for which data was available at the time.
See HHS Off. of Inspector Gen., Data Brief No. A-01-20-
00502, The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Could Improve Its Wage Index Adjustment for Hospitals in
Areas with the Lowest Wages 11 (Dec. 2020),
https://perma.cc/5T3S-C6SK. As a result of this financial
stress, 129 rural hospitals closed between 2010 and 2020.
See Univ. of N.C. Cecil G. Sheps Ctr. for Health Servs.
Rsch.,           Rural           Hospital          Closures,
https://www.shepscenter.unc.edu/programs-projects/rural-
health/rural-hospital-closures     [https://perma.cc/N5HE-
DT24] (last visited Nov. 17, 2024). By requiring the
Secretary to return to these failed policies, the majority
ensures that rural communities will continue to lose access
to health care.
    The low wage index policy is fully consistent with the
statutory text, whereas the majority interprets “reflecting” to
have an unnaturally restrictive meaning. But even if the
majority’s reading were plausible, we should not toss out the
agency’s equally plausible interpretation. Because the
majority’s unnecessary rejection of the Secretary’s policy
will have drastic repercussions for vulnerable communities,
I dissent.
