               FOR PUBLICATION

  UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
       FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

INTERNATIONAL LONGSHORE           No. 23-632
AND WAREHOUSE UNION;
                                   NLRB No.
INTERNATIONAL LONGSHORE
                                 19-CD-269637
AND WAREHOUSE UNION,
LOCAL 19,
          Petitioners,            OPINION
  v.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS
BOARD,
        Respondent,


INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF MACHINISTS AND
AEROSPACE WORKERS,
DISTRICT 160, LOCAL LODGE
289,
          Intervenor.


PACIFIC MARITIME                  No. 23-658
ASSOCIATION,
                                   NLRB No.
         Petitioner,
                                 19-CD-269637
 v.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS
2    INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB


BOARD,
         Respondent,


INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF MACHINISTS AND
AEROSPACE WORKERS,
DISTRICT 160, LOCAL LODGE
289,
          Intervenor.


NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS               No. 23-780
BOARD,
                                       NLRB No.
        Petitioner,
                                     19-CD-269637
 v.

INTERNATIONAL LONGSHORE
AND WAREHOUSE UNION;
INTERNATIONAL LONGSHORE
AND WAREHOUSE UNION,
LOCAL 19,
          Respondents,


INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF MACHINISTS AND
AEROSPACE WORKERS,
DISTRICT 160, LOCAL LODGE
289,
          Intervenor.
         INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB                  3



INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION                           No. 23-793
OF MACHINISTS AND
                                                    NLRB No.
AEROSPACE WORKERS,
                                                  19-CD-269637
DISTRICT 160, LOCAL LODGE
289,
          Petitioner,
  v.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS
BOARD,
        Respondent,

         On Petition for Review of an Order of the
             National Labor Relations Board
         Argued and Submitted November 15, 2024
                 San Francisco, California

                       Filed June 18, 2025

    Before: Sidney R. Thomas and Eric D. Miller, Circuit
       Judges, and Lee H. Rosenthal, District Judge. *

                  Opinion by Judge Miller;
                 Concurrence by Judge Miller




*
 The Honorable Lee H. Rosenthal, United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Texas, sitting by designation.
4        INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB


                          SUMMARY *


                National Labor Relations Act

    The panel (1) granted petitions for review by the
International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) and
the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA), (2) denied a
petition for review by the International Association of
Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM), (3) denied a
cross-petition for enforcement by the National Labor
Relations Board, and (4) vacated the Board’s order directing
ILWU to cease and desist from pursuing maintenance work
for SSA Terminals at Terminal 5 in the Port of Seattle.
    This case arose from a jurisdictional dispute between
ILWU and IAM, both of which claimed the right under
collective bargaining agreements to perform maintenance
work for SSA. Pursuant to section 10(k) of the National
Labor Relations Act, SSA asked the Board to decide which
union should perform the work. The Board assigned the
work to IAM, prompting ILWU to pursue a grievance
against SSA under its collective bargaining agreement,
seeking the value of the work assigned to IAM.
    After an arbitrator found in ILWU's favor, SSA filed an
unfair labor practice charge against ILWU, alleging that
ILWU violated section 8(b)(4)(D) of the Act because its
pursuit of the grievance was intended to coerce SSA into
assigning the work to ILWU. ILWU defended itself by
invoking the work-preservation defense, which protects
“primary” union activity—activity intended to accomplish

*
 This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
        INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB           5


some goal within the confines of the employer-employee
relationship—as opposed to impermissible “secondary”
union activity—activity that has the goal of inducing an
employer to take action against a third party with which the
union has a dispute. See NLRB v. International
Longshoremen’s Ass’n (ILA), 447 U.S. 490 (1980).
    The Board determined that the work-preservation
defense is not available in pure jurisdictional disputes, like
this one, where multiple unions have valid contractual
entitlements to the disputed work directly with the
employer. The Board ordered ILWU to cease and desist
from pursuing the maintenance work at Terminal 5.
     The panel held that the Board’s position was foreclosed
by International Longshore and Warehouse Union v. NLRB
(Kinder Morgan), 978 F.3d 625, 637 (9th Cir. 2020), which
held that “[a] valid work-preservation objective provides a
complete defense against alleged violations of section
8(b)(4)(D), as well as against jurisdictional disputes under
section 10(k).” Pursuant to Kinder Morgan, a union charged
with an unfair labor practice under section 8(b)(4)(D) may
raise a work-preservation defense even when the union is not
alleged to have engaged in illegal secondary activity. The
Board erred by refusing to entertain ILWU’s work-
preservation defense under Kinder Morgan. Accordingly,
the panel vacated the Board’s order and remanded for the
Board to evaluate the merits of the defense in the first
instance.
    Concurring, Judge Miller wrote separately to express his
view that Kinder Morgan was wrongly decided and should
be reconsidered en banc. Because the ILA work-
preservation defense allows a union to demonstrate that it
did not act with an illegal secondary objective, the Board has
6       INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB


historically entertained the defense only when a union is
alleged to have engaged in secondary activity in violation of
section 8(b)(4)(B). Kinder Morgan applied an affirmative
defense that the Supreme Court created to cabin the reach of
one statutory provision, section 8(b)(4)(B), to cases arising
under     a    separate    statutory    provision,    section
8(b)(4)(D). Grafting the ILA work-preservation defense
onto section 8(b)(4)(D), as Kinder Morgan did, undermines
the jurisdictional dispute-resolution scheme enacted by
Congress. It is not supported by precedent, creates a circuit
conflict, and undermines Congress’s decision to empower
the Board to resolve jurisdictional disputes.



                        COUNSEL

Robert S. Remar (argued), Law Office of Robert Remar, San
Francisco, California; Robert H. Lavitt, Travis Lavenski,
and Julian Gonzalez, Barnard Iglitzin & Lavitt LLP, Seattle,
Washington; Lindsay R. Nicholas, Leonard Carder LLP,
Oakland, California; Michael E. Kenneally (argued) and
Jonathan C. Fritts, Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP,
Washington, D.C.; Geoffrey J. Rosenthal, Morgan Lewis &
Bockius LLP, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Gregory Nelson,
Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP, New York, New York; for
Petitioners.
Micah P.S. Jost (argued), Attorney; Kira D. Vol, Supervising
Attorney; David Habrndtreit, Assistant General Counsel;
Ruth E. Burdick, Deputy Associate General Counsel; Peter
S. Ohr, Associate General Counsel; Jennifer A. Abruzzo,
General Counsel; National Labor Relations Board,
Washington, D.C.; for Respondent.
        INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB           7


David A. Rosenfeld (argued), Weinberg Roger & Rosenfeld,
Emeryville, California, for Intervenor.



                         OPINION

MILLER, Circuit Judge:

   Sometimes multiple unions have irreconcilable
contractual rights to perform the same work for the same
employer. The resulting disputes—which the employer
cannot resolve without breaching its obligations to one of the
unions—are known as “jurisdictional disputes.” See USCP-
WESCO, Inc. v. NLRB, 827 F.2d 581, 583 (9th Cir. 1987).
     This case arises out of a jurisdictional dispute between
the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU)
and the International Association of Machinists and
Aerospace Workers (IAM). Both claim the right under
collective bargaining agreements to perform certain work for
SSA Terminals. Unable to resolve the dispute itself, SSA
asked the National Labor Relations Board to decide which
union should perform the work. The Board assigned the
work to IAM, prompting ILWU to pursue a grievance under
its collective bargaining agreement. The Board then filed an
unfair labor practice charge against ILWU, alleging that its
pursuit of the grievance was illegal. ILWU defended itself
by invoking the work-preservation defense. That defense
protects “primary” union activity—that is, activity intended
to accomplish some goal within the confines of the
employer-employee relationship. See NLRB v. International
Longshoremen’s Ass’n (ILA), 447 U.S. 490, 504 (1980). But
the Board determined that the defense does not apply in
disputes, like this one, where multiple unions have valid
8       INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB


contractual entitlements to the disputed work directly with
the employer.
    Whatever the merits of the Board’s position as a matter
of first principles, it is foreclosed by our decision in
International Longshore and Warehouse Union v. NLRB
(Kinder Morgan), 978 F.3d 625 (9th Cir. 2020). We
therefore grant the petitions challenging the Board’s order
and deny the Board’s cross-petition for enforcement.
                              I
    ILWU represents longshore workers at ports along the
Pacific Coast, including the Port of Seattle. It has a
longstanding collective-bargaining relationship with the
Pacific Maritime Association (PMA), an association of
businesses that employ longshore workers. See Kinder
Morgan, 978 F.3d at 630. ILWU and PMA have negotiated
a master collective bargaining agreement, the Pacific Coast
Longshore Contract Document (PCLCD), which is binding
on all PMA-member employers.
    For many decades, ILWU and PMA have quarreled over
the extent to which PMA-member employers may use
technology to replace the work traditionally performed by
union longshore workers. In 2008, ILWU and PMA
addressed that issue when they negotiated the current version
of the PCLCD. Section 1.72 allows PMA-member
employers to introduce automation at their marine terminals.
In exchange, it expands ILWU’s jurisdiction to cover the
“installation, reinstallation, removal, maintenance and
repair, and associated cleaning of such new technologies”—
which we will refer to simply as “maintenance work”—at
certain qualifying ports.
        INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB           9


      In 2018, SSA Terminals, a PMA-member employer,
began operating Terminal 5 of the Port of Seattle as a marine
terminal, making Terminal 5 subject to section 1.72. But that
presented a conflict. Although section 1.72 required SSA to
assign the maintenance work to mechanics represented by
ILWU, SSA had a separate bilateral collective bargaining
agreement with IAM, guaranteeing IAM-represented
mechanics the right to “perform all [maintenance] work
. . . at all Puget Sound Region Intermodal, Marine or
Container Terminals,” including Terminal 5. SSA initially
assigned the maintenance work to mechanics represented by
ILWU. In response, IAM threatened “economic action” at
Terminal 5. Caught in the middle of the jurisdictional dispute
between the two unions, SSA turned to the Board for help.
    The National Labor Relations Act, ch. 372, 49 Stat. 449
(1935) (29 U.S.C. § 151 et seq.), as amended by the Taft-
Hartley Act, ch. 120, 61 Stat. 136 (1947), establishes a two-
step mechanism to allow the Board to resolve jurisdictional
disputes. First, section 8(b)(4)(D) makes it an unfair labor
practice to “threaten, coerce, or restrain” an employer with
the object of forcing that employer to “assign particular work
to employees in a particular labor organization . . . rather
than to employees in another labor organization.” 29 U.S.C.
§ 158(b)(4)(D). Second, when the Board finds cause to
believe that section 8(b)(4)(D) has been violated, section
10(k) empowers it to hold a hearing and to award the
disputed work to one of the competing unions. 29 U.S.C.
§160(k). The Board considers a variety of factors at a 10(k)
hearing, including the skills of the competing unions, the
unions’ history of performing the relevant work, the
employer’s preference, the different collective bargaining
agreements, and the economic efficiency of the employer’s
10      INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB


business. See International Ass’n of Machinists, Lodge
1743, 135 N.L.R.B. 1402, 1410–11 (1962).
    SSA invoked that mechanism here. First, it filed an
unfair labor practice charge against IAM, alleging that its
threat of “economic action” violated section 8(b)(4)(D). That
triggered section 10(k), so the Board held a hearing to
determine if the disputed work should be awarded to
mechanics represented by ILWU or to those represented by
IAM. After considering the relevant factors, the Board
assigned the work to IAM-represented mechanics.
    ILWU refused to accept the Board’s decision, instead
pursuing a grievance under the PCLCD seeking the value of
the work assigned to IAM. ILWU alleged that SSA had
violated section 1.76—which requires SSA to “defend” the
assignment of work to ILWU-represented mechanics “in any
legal proceeding”—by failing to state a preference for
ILWU-represented mechanics at the section 10(k) hearing.
An arbitrator found that SSA had violated section 1.76 and
ordered it to pay ILWU for “lost work opportunity claims for
any future [Terminal 5 maintenance] work not performed by
ILWU-represented [m]echanics.”
    From SSA’s perspective, the arbitration award made the
Board’s section 10(k) determination a nullity: SSA could
either reassign the work back to ILWU or else be forced to
pay twice. So SSA filed another unfair labor practice charge
with the Board. This time, SSA, joined by PMA, alleged that
ILWU had violated section 8(b)(4)(D) because pursuing the
grievance was intended to coerce SSA into assigning the
work to mechanics represented by ILWU rather than IAM.
See 29 U.S.C. § 158(b)(4)(D).
   The unfair labor practice charge proceeded to a hearing
before an ALJ. ILWU did not dispute that pursuing a
        INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB         11


grievance in defiance of a section 10(k) award can violate
section 8(b)(4)(D). Rather, it argued that its conduct was
immunized by the work-preservation affirmative defense.
Specifically, ILWU argued that pursuing the grievance was
“primary” activity because it sought to accomplish a goal
within the confines of its relationship with SSA—namely, to
get SSA to honor its contractual obligations to assign the
maintenance work to ILWU workers. The ALJ rejected
ILWU’s defense, and the Board affirmed. The Board held
that the work-preservation defense is unavailable in pure
jurisdictional disputes. Permitting a union to raise that
defense, it observed, would subvert Congress’s intention to
“afford employers protection when their actions conform to
a Board determination under section 10(k).” The Board
ordered ILWU to cease and desist from pursuing the
maintenance work at Terminal 5 and to notify its mechanics
of their obligation to do the same.
    Four petitions followed, all of which have been
consolidated here. ILWU and PMA each petition for review
of the Board’s order finding that ILWU violated section
8(b)(4)(D). They argue that the Board erred in rejecting
ILWU’s work-preservation defense. In the alternative, they
contend that the Board’s section 10(k) work award was not
supported by substantial evidence. IAM also petitions for
review. Although it agrees with the Board’s legal and factual
conclusions, it argues that the Board’s remedy is inadequate
to prevent ILWU from illegally pursuing disputed work at
Terminal 5 and other terminals along the Pacific Coast.
Finally, the Board cross-petitions for enforcement of its
order. See 29 U.S.C. § 160(e), (f).
12      INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB


                              II
    The parties agree on several preliminary points. They
agree that this is a genuine jurisdictional dispute: ILWU and
IAM both had valid contracts with SSA (or in ILWU’s case,
with PMA, to which SSA was bound), and SSA could not
simultaneously comply with its obligations under both
contracts. They also agree that when both ILWU and IAM
pursued the maintenance work, it was appropriate for the
Board to resolve the dispute under section 10(k). They even
agree that ILWU’s pursuit of a grievance in arbitration
constituted a prima facie violation of section 8(b)(4)(D).
    They disagree, however, on whether ILWU ought to
have been permitted to raise a work-preservation defense to
SSA’s section 8(b)(4)(D) charge against ILWU.
Confusingly, two different doctrines both called the “work-
preservation defense” are potentially relevant here.
    The first, which we have already discussed, is described
in the Supreme Court’s decision in ILA, 447 U.S. 490, and
typically applies to unfair labor practice charges under
section 8(b)(4)(B), 29 U.S.C. § 158(b)(4)(B). That work-
preservation defense draws a line between primary union
activity, which is permissible, and secondary union activity,
which is not. See National Woodwork Mfrs. Ass’n v. NLRB,
386 U.S. 612, 622–26 (1967) (explaining that, in drafting the
Act, Congress was particularly concerned with the evils of
secondary activity). Primary activity is aimed at a dispute
between an employer and its employees (or the union that
represents those employees). See Kinder Morgan, 978 F.3d
at 637. For example, a union engages in primary activity if
it pickets the premises of its members’ employer to induce
the employer to offer better terms to its members. Secondary
activity, by contrast, is directed at one employer but has the
        INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB          13


goal of inducing that employer to take some action against a
third party with which the union has a dispute. See National
Woodwork, 386 U.S. at 622. For example, a union engages
in secondary activity if it pickets a construction site to
pressure the general contractor to fire its subcontractor
because that subcontractor has hired non-union workers. In
that scenario, the union exerts direct pressure on the general
contractor, who is presumably neutral in the dispute between
the union and the subcontractor, with the goal that the
general contractor will take some action against the
subcontractor.
    To show that its conduct was primary, not secondary, a
union invoking the work-preservation defense must satisfy a
two-part test. First, the union must show that its conduct
“ha[d] as its objective the preservation of work traditionally
performed by employees represented by the union.” ILA,
447 U.S. at 504. “Second, the contracting employer must
have the power to give the employees the work in question.”
Id.
    The Board argues that because the ILA work-
preservation defense exists to separate permissible primary
activity from impermissible secondary activity, it can be
invoked only when a union is alleged to have engaged in
secondary activity—that is, when a union is accused of
conducting a secondary boycott in violation of section
8(b)(4)(B). See 29 U.S.C. § 158(b)(4)(B). As the Board
explains, a pure jurisdictional dispute—which involves an
alleged violation of section 8(b)(4)(D)—necessarily does
not involve such allegations. That is because a jurisdictional
dispute is really an aggregation of two or more primary
disputes: Each union vying for the work has a contract
directly with the employer, and each union is attempting to
get that employer to take some action within the confines of
14      INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB


the employer-employee relationship. See International
Longshoremen’s & Warehousemen’s Union v. NLRB,
884 F.2d 1407, 1412–13 (D.C. Cir. 1989). Applying the ILA
work-preservation defense in that context would give every
union an automatic defense to section 8(b)(4)(D) charges,
gutting the Board’s section 10(k) authority to resolve
jurisdictional disputes.
    Instead, the Board says, the only work-preservation
defense that applies here is the one articulated in the Board’s
decision in Highway Truck Drivers & Helpers, Local
107 (Safeway), 134 N.L.R.B. 1320 (1961). Under that
doctrine, a union can compel the Board to drop section
8(b)(4)(D) charges and quash notice of a section 10(k)
hearing if the union shows that the case is actually a “work
preservation dispute” between the employer and the union,
not a jurisdictional dispute between two unions. Id. at 1323.
To demonstrate that such a dispute exists, the union must
show that it previously performed the work at issue for that
employer (and therefore is not seeking to expand its work
jurisdiction) and that the employer precipitated the dispute
by unilaterally taking some action adverse to the union
(usually, by reassigning the work). See, e.g., Recon
Refractory & Const. Inc. v. NLRB, 424 F.3d 980, 990 (9th
Cir. 2005); Steel, Paper House, Chem. Drivers & Helpers
Loc. 578, 280 N.L.R.B. 818, 820 (1986). Unlike the ILA
work-preservation defense, the Safeway work-preservation
defense is not an affirmative defense; it is a way of showing
that a putative jurisdictional dispute is not a jurisdictional
dispute at all.
    Because all parties to this case have conceded that it is a
classic jurisdictional dispute—and thus that it is not a work-
preservation dispute—they agree that the Safeway work-
preservation defense does not apply. The Board ascribes a
        INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB        15


further consequence to that concession: The jurisdictional
nature of the dispute makes the ILA work-preservation
defense inapplicable, too. If we were writing on a blank
slate, we might find the Board’s argument persuasive. But
the Board’s argument is foreclosed by our decision in Kinder
Morgan.
    Kinder Morgan involved a jurisdictional dispute
between ILWU and another union, the Electrical Workers,
over maintenance work at a marine terminal operated by
Kinder Morgan, a PMA-member employer. 978 F.3d at 628–
29. Kinder Morgan had historically subcontracted that work
“to a subcontractor which employed workers under its own
[collective-bargaining agreement] with the Electrical
Workers.” Id. at 631. When that arrangement persisted after
the PCLCD became effective and expanded the scope of the
longshoremen’s work, ILWU demanded the work for its
mechanics. See id. The Electrical Workers threatened to
picket the Kinder Morgan terminal, and Kinder Morgan
asked the Board to invoke section 10(k) to resolve the
dispute. See id.
     The Board awarded the work to the Electrical Workers,
and ILWU continued to seek the work by pursuing grievance
procedures. See Kinder Morgan, 978 F.3d at 631–32. The
Board then filed an unfair labor practice charge against
ILWU under section 8(b)(4)(D) based on the grievance. See
id. at 632. ILWU invoked the work-preservation affirmative
defense, arguing that the grievance was intended to preserve
the work that it bargained for in the PCLCD and was directed
at the employer, Kinder Morgan, with the power to assign
the work. See id. The Board rejected that argument. See id.
at 632–33.
16      INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB


    We reversed the Board’s order. See Kinder Morgan,
978 F.3d at 630. We held that “[a] valid work-preservation
objective provides a complete defense against alleged
violations of section 8(b)(4)(D), as well as against
jurisdictional disputes under section 10(k).” Id. at 637. Thus,
we explained, a union can avoid liability under section
8(b)(4)(D) by satisfying the two-part test outlined in ILA. See
id. at 637–38 (citing ILA, 447 U.S. at 504). And we
emphasized that the work-preservation defense can
accommodate situations in which a union has not historically
performed the precise work at issue but has bargained for the
work to preserve its traditional work patterns in the face of
technological changes that eliminated jobs. See id. at
638 (citing ILA, 447 U.S. at 506).
     The Board’s conclusion that the ILA work-preservation
defense was inapplicable here cannot be reconciled with our
decision in Kinder Morgan. Both cases involve
jurisdictional disputes that the Board validly resolved under
its section 10(k) authority. In both cases, ILWU lost in the
section 10(k) proceedings and then attempted to undermine
the Board’s award in arbitration, which led the Board to
pursue unfair labor practices charges under section
8(b)(4)(D). In this case, ILWU fights that charge by pointing
to the same contractual entitlement to work that it pointed to
in Kinder Morgan. Having allowed it to do so there, we must
allow it to do so here.
    The Board contests this conclusion on two grounds.
Neither is persuasive. First, it points out that Kinder Morgan,
unlike this case, involved allegations of secondary activity.
See 978 F.3d at 633 n.10. Specifically, the Board there
alleged that ILWU attempted to pressure Kinder Morgan to
cease doing business with the subcontractor that hired the
Electrical Workers rather than ILWU mechanics. See id. at
         INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB             17


632. In the Board’s view, that secondary-activity allegation
made it appropriate for the court to permit ILWU to raise the
work-preservation defense, but the lack of a comparable
allegation makes it inappropriate here.
    While the Board is correct that there was an allegation of
secondary activity in Kinder Morgan, that was not the only
allegation to which we held that the work-preservation
defense applied. To the contrary, we held that “[a] valid
work preservation objective provides a complete defense
against alleged violations of section 8(b)(4)(D), as well as
against jurisdictional disputes under section 10(k).” 978 F.3d
at 637. We made it clear that allegations of secondary
activity do not support charges under section 8(b)(4)(D), nor
do they give rise to disputes resolved under section 10(k). As
we noted in Kinder Morgan, the secondary-boycott
allegations there were brought under section 8(b)(4)(B). Id.
at 633 n.10. Thus, Kinder Morgan must mean that the ILA
work-preservation defense provides a “complete defense
against alleged violations of section 8(b)(4)(D)” in addition
to allegations of secondary activity brought under section
8(b)(4)(B). Id. at 637. It is for that reason that the court found
it unnecessary to “address [section 8(b)(4)(B)] separately”
when delineating the scope of the defense. See id. at 633
n.10.
    Second, the Board suggests that our reading of Kinder
Morgan is in tension with our decision in Recon, 424 F.3d
980. That case involved a dispute between a construction
company, Recon, and a union, the Bricklayers. See id. at 981.
To reduce costs, Recon fired employees represented by the
Bricklayers and reassigned their work to employees
represented by another union, IPTW. See id. at 982. The
Bricklayers filed a grievance and a lawsuit for breach of
contract, and IPTW threatened economic action if Recon
18      INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB


reassigned the work to the Bricklayers. See id. at 984. Recon
asked the Board to resolve the dispute under section 10(k),
but the Board refused to do so because it found that Recon
had precipitated the dispute by unilaterally reassigning the
work to employees represented by IPTW. See id. at 985.
Citing Safeway, the Board found that the conflict was “not a
jurisdictional dispute suitable for resolution under § 10(k)”
but rather a “work preservation dispute” between Recon and
the Bricklayers that had to be resolved through arbitration.
See id. at 985; accord USCP-WESCO, 827 F.2d at 583. We
affirmed, describing the showing that the Bricklayers made
to avoid adjudication of the dispute under section 10(k) as
an invocation of “a work preservation defense.” Recon,
424 F.3d at 988–89 (quoting International All. of Theatrical
& Stage Emps., 337 N.L.R.B. 721, 723 (2002)).
    But our decision in Recon did not say, as the Board
contends, that the Safeway work-preservation defense is the
only defense that is available when a union is alleged to have
violated section 8(b)(4)(D) in the context of a jurisdictional
dispute. Nor could it have—the Board’s finding that Recon
precipitated the dispute there meant that no genuine
jurisdictional dispute existed, and the Board declined to
enter a section 10(k) work award for that reason. See Recon,
424 F.3d at 985. The court in Recon had no occasion to
decide whether a union enmeshed in a genuine jurisdictional
dispute can rely on the ILA work-preservation defense to
avoid liability for conduct contravening an adverse section
10(k) award. That is the central question in this case, and
Kinder Morgan is the only decision from our circuit that
answers it.
    In sum, Kinder Morgan compels us to hold that a union
charged with an unfair labor practice under section
8(b)(4)(D) may raise the ILA work-preservation defense
        INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB          19


even when the union is not alleged to have engaged in illegal
secondary activity. The Board’s refusal to entertain the
work-preservation defense under Kinder Morgan was error,
so we remand to the Board to evaluate the merits of the
defense in the first instance. Because our conclusion that the
Board erred requires vacatur of the Board’s order, we do not
reach ILWU’s alternative argument that the underlying
section 10(k) work award was not supported by substantial
evidence. For the same reason, we also do not reach IAM’s
argument that the remedy required by the order was
insufficient.
                      *       *       *
    ILWU’s petition for review (No. 23-632) and PMA’s
petition for review (No. 23-658) are granted; IAM’s petition
for review (No. 23-793) and the Board’s cross-petition for
enforcement (No. 23-780) are denied. Costs shall be taxed
against IAM in No. 23-793 and against the Board in Nos. 23-
632, 23-658, and 23-780.
   VACATED and REMANDED.


MILLER, Circuit Judge, concurring:

    I join the court’s opinion, which correctly applies our
decision in International Longshore and Warehouse Union
v. NLRB (Kinder Morgan), 978 F.3d 625 (9th Cir. 2020). I
write separately to express my view that Kinder Morgan was
wrongly decided. Kinder Morgan applies an affirmative
defense that the Supreme Court created to cabin the reach of
one statutory provision, section 8(b)(4)(B) of the National
Labor Relations Act, 29 U.S.C. § 158(b)(4)(B), to cases
arising under a separate statutory provision, section
20       INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB


8(b)(4)(D), id. § 158(b)(4)(D). It is not supported by
precedent; it creates a circuit conflict; and it undermines
Congress’s decision to empower the Board to resolve
jurisdictional disputes.
    Under section 8(b)(4)(B), it is an unfair labor practice for
a union to “forc[e] or requir[e] any person . . . to cease doing
business with any other person.” 29 U.S.C. § 158(b)(4)(B).
Section 8(b)(4)(B) proscribes only secondary union activity;
it does not prohibit “any primary strike or primary
picketing.” Id.; see National Woodwork Mfrs. Ass’n v. NLRB,
386 U.S. 612, 620 (1967). That is, a union violates section
8(b)(4)(B) only when it attempts to prevail in a dispute with
one employer by involving another employer that is neutral
to that dispute. But if a union’s conduct is aimed at a dispute
within the employer-employee relationship—in other words,
if it is primary—the union does not violate section
8(b)(4)(B).
    To distinguish between permissible primary conduct and
impermissible secondary conduct, the Supreme Court
developed the work-preservation defense. The defense
requires a two-part showing. First, the union’s conduct “must
have as its objective the preservation of work traditionally
performed by employees represented by the union.” NLRB v.
International Longshoremen’s Ass’n (ILA), 447 U.S. 490,
504 (1980). By focusing on work historically performed by
the union’s members, the first part of the test ensures that the
union is truly attempting to preserve existing work rather
than attempting to acquire new work. Second, the union
must show that “the contracting employer [has] the power to
give the employees the work in question.” Id. If the employer
does not have that power, “it is reasonable to infer that the
agreement has a secondary objective, that is, to influence
        INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB       21


whoever does have such power over the work.” Id. at 504–
05.
    Because the ILA work-preservation defense allows a
union to demonstrate that it did not act with an illegal
secondary objective, the Board has historically entertained
the defense only when a union is alleged to have engaged in
secondary activity in violation of section 8(b)(4)(B). See,
e.g., International Longshoremen’s Ass’n, 372 N.L.R.B. No.
36 (Dec. 16, 2022) (dismissing a section 8(b)(4)(B) charge
under the work-preservation defense); Teamsters Nat’l Auto.
Transporters Indus. Negotiating Comm., 335 N.L.R.B. 830,
832 (2001) (same). We have done the same. See, e.g.,
Associated Gen. Contractors of California, Inc. v. NLRB,
514 F.2d 433, 438 (9th Cir. 1975) (rejecting work-
preservation defense raised against section 8(b)(4)(B)
charges after determining that the union’s objective was
work acquisition).
    That changed in Kinder Morgan. There, we held that the
ILA work-preservation defense can be raised “against
alleged violations of section 8(b)(4)(D),” in addition to
alleged violations of section 8(b)(4)(B). 978 F.3d at 637.
Section 8(b)(4)(D) addresses jurisdictional disputes, which
arise when two unions have valid contractual claims to the
same work and one or both of those unions seeks to secure
the work for its employees through means such as picketing.
Fearing the labor instability that jurisdictional disputes
generate, Congress directed the Board to resolve those
disputes through section 10(k), 29 U.S.C. § 160(k). See
NLRB. v. Radio & Television Broad. Eng’rs Union, 364 U.S.
573, 580 (1961). A section 10(k) work award is not
independently binding but is enforced through section
8(b)(4)(D). See NLRB v. Plasterers’ Loc. Union No. 79,
404 U.S. 116, 126–27 (1971). If the union that is not
22      INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB


awarded the work complies with the Board’s work award,
the initial section 8(b)(4)(D) charges will be dismissed. See
id. at 127. But if that union continues to pursue the disputed
work, a further section 8(b)(4)(D) complaint will issue, and
the union will likely be found guilty of an unfair labor
practice. See id.
    In the context of section 8(b)(4)(D), the Board has
recognized a different (but confusingly similarly named)
work-preservation defense. See Highway Truck Drivers &
Helpers, Local 107 (Safeway), 134 N.L.R.B. 1320 (1961).
The Safeway work-preservation defense allows a union to
compel the Board to drop section 8(b)(4)(D) charges and
quash notice of a section 10(k) hearing if it can show that the
case is actually a work-preservation dispute between the
employer and the union, and not a jurisdictional dispute
between two unions. Id. at 1323. But it was never meant to
apply where, as here, two unions have a genuine
jurisdictional dispute.
    Grafting the ILA work-preservation defense onto section
8(b)(4)(D), as Kinder Morgan did, undermines the
jurisdictional dispute-resolution scheme enacted by
Congress. The Board’s section 10(k) work award is effective
because of the prospect of a follow-on section 8(b)(4)(D)
charge. But a union entangled in a jurisdictional dispute now
has little reason to worry about that section 8(b)(4)(D)
charge because it will almost always be able to escape
section 8(b)(4)(D) liability by raising the work-preservation
defense that prevailed in Kinder Morgan. That is because
every jurisdictional dispute, by its nature, involves two
irreconcilable primary disputes—each one between the
employer who has the authority to control the work and a
union whose collective bargaining agreement seeks to
preserve the union’s work jurisdiction. See International
        INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB         23


Longshoremen’s & Warehousemen’s Union v. NLRB (Sea-
Land), 884 F.2d 1407, 1408 (D.C. Cir. 1989). By providing
the disappointed union with a reliable affirmative defense to
the prospective section 8(b)(4)(D) charge, Kinder Morgan
renders the section 10(k) work award illusory by removing
the union’s incentive to comply with it.
    No precedent supports that result. Kinder Morgan cited
several Supreme Court cases in support of its holding, but
each of those cases involved charges brought under section
8(b)(4)(B), not section 8(b)(4)(D). See National Woodwork,
386 U.S. at 644–46; ILA, 447 U.S. at 503–13; NLRB v.
International Longshoremen’s Ass’n, 473 U.S. 61, 79–82
(1985). And an affirmative defense available in the section
8(b)(4)(B) context should not be reflexively imported to the
section 8(b)(4)(D) context because “the theoretical bases for
each charge are different.” Sea-Land, 884 F.2d at 1412
(quoting International Longshoremen’s & Warehousemen’s
Union, Loc. 62-B v. NLRB, 781 F.2d 919, 922 (D.C. Cir.
1986)). Indeed, the only other circuit to have squarely
confronted this question concluded that the ILA work-
preservation defense does not immunize conduct charged
under section 8(b)(4)(D). See id. at 1410–13. In so holding,
the District of Columbia Circuit intimated what the facts
here make clear: Permitting a union to raise the work
preservation defense to a section 8(b)(4)(D) charge would
unravel the mechanism that Congress created to enable the
Board to resolve jurisdictional disputes. See id. at 1413.
    Attempting to defend Kinder Morgan, ILWU argues that
allowing a union to raise the section 8(b)(4)(B) ILA work-
preservation defense to a section 8(b)(4)(D) charge fosters
labor peace by assuring contracting parties that their
negotiated compromises will be respected. The problem, of
course, is that while deference to contractual solutions may
24      INT’L LONGSHORE & WAREHOUSE UNION V. NLRB


be ILWU’s preferred method of ensuring labor peace, it was
not Congress’s. Congress concluded that jurisdictional
disputes should be resolved by the Board under its section
10(k) authority. And although Congress empowered the
Board to consider the parties’ collective bargaining
agreements in the section 10(k) hearing, it left to the Board
alone the task of weighing that factor against the other
relevant considerations. See International Ass’n of
Machinists, Lodge 1743, 135 N.L.R.B. 1402, 1405–10
(1962); 29 U.S.C. § 160(k).
   As a three-judge panel, we are bound by Kinder Morgan,
which compels us to vacate the Board’s order. But the court
should reconsider it en banc.
