USCA4 Appeal: 23-1192     Doc: 67         Filed: 03/04/2025    Pg: 1 of 15




                                           UNPUBLISHED

                              UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
                                  FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT


                                             No. 23-1192


        APPALACHIAN POWER COMPANY

                            Petitioner

        BLUE RIDGE POWER AGENCY

                            Intervenor

                     v.

        FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION,

                            Respondent.



        On Petition for Review of an Order of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. (21-
        97-000)


        Argued: September 26, 2024                                      Decided: March 4, 2025


        Before NIEMEYER, Circuit Judge, FLOYD, Senior Circuit Judge, and Kenneth D. BELL,
        United States District Judge for the Western District of North Carolina, sitting by
        designation.


        Petition for review denied by unpublished per curiam opinion.


        ARGUED: William Keyser, III, STEPTOE LLP, Washington, D.C., for Petitioner. Carol
        J. Banta, FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION, Washington, D.C., for
        Respondent. ON BRIEF: Karen Bruni, Megan McDowell, STEPTOE & JOHNSON
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1192      Doc: 67         Filed: 03/04/2025    Pg: 2 of 15




        LLP, Washington, D.C.; Jessica A. Cano, Assistant General Counsel, AMERICAN
        ELECTRIC POWER SERVICE CORPORATION, Columbus, Ohio, for Petitioner.
        Matthew R. Christiansen, General Counsel, Robert H. Solomon, Solicitor, FEDERAL
        ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION, Washington, D.C., for Respondent.


        Unpublished opinions are not binding precedent in this circuit.




                                                    2
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1192       Doc: 67         Filed: 03/04/2025     Pg: 3 of 15




        PER CURIAM:

               This case concerns the interpretation of contracts between member utilities of the

        Blue Ridge Power Agency and Petitioner Appalachian Power Company (APCO). The

        Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) issued an order declaring that Blue Ridge

        members may install battery storage, energize the batteries with electricity purchased from

        APCO, and discharge that electricity during periods of peak demand without violating

        those agreements.    APCO filed a petition for review challenging the Commission’s

        decision. For the reasons we explain below, we deny the petition.



                                                      I.

               Blue Ridge, appearing as intervenor aligned with FERC, is a non-profit entity that

        negotiates wholesale power purchase contracts on behalf of its members and monitors

        performance of those contracts. In 2017, APCO and three Blue Ridge members—Craig-

        Botetourt Electric Cooperative and the cities of Radford and Salem, Virginia (collectively,

        the “Members”)—executed three respective agreements for “Full Requirements Electric

        Service.” J.A. 352. Under these agreements, APCO sells to the Members all electricity

        required to meet their end-use customers’ needs. In return, the Members purchase all the

        electricity they require from APCO and no one else. These three agreements contained

        substantially identical language and did not expressly authorize or forbid installation of

        battery storage technology (BST). This technology is aptly named: it consists of large-

        scale batteries capable of storing energy and discharging it to the electrical grid on demand.

        A fourth agreement for APCO to supply wholesale electricity to Virginia Polytechnic

                                                      3
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1192      Doc: 67         Filed: 03/04/2025      Pg: 4 of 15




        Institute and State University (Virginia Tech) in Blacksburg, Virginia, contained

        provisions limiting BST installation. The Virginia Tech Agreement was executed in 2019.

        Relevant to the present appeal, each of these contracts also contained a choice of law clause

        providing for its interpretation under Virginia law.

               In 2021, Blue Ridge informed APCO that its members intended to install BST to

        manage electrical loads at times of peak demand. These batteries would be energized using

        power purchased from APCO during off-peak times, when electricity costs less. The

        Members intended to then discharge electricity to meet customer demand during peak

        times, reducing the amount they must purchase from APCO at higher rates. APCO sent a

        response to Blue Ridge indicating it did not believe the agreements permitted the

        implementation of BST as contemplated by the Members.

               Blue Ridge filed a petition seeking a declaratory judgment with the Commission

        shortly thereafter. See 18 C.F.R. § 385.207(a)(2) (permitting party to file petition for

        declaratory order); see also 5 U.S.C. § 554(e) (permitting FERC to issue “declaratory order

        to terminate a controversy or remove uncertainty”). Blue Ridge asked the Commission to

        declare that the agreements were not a barrier to installing BST and using it to manage

        electricity demand. APCO filed a response arguing the agreements foreclosed BST

        installation and its use in the manner the Members intended, and it asked the Commission

        to issue a judgment declaring accordingly.

               On October 21, 2022, FERC issued an order finding the Members’ agreements with

        APCO permitted installation of BST. Specifically, the Commission concluded that “[t]he

        use of battery storage does not affect the parties’ obligations under the Agreements”

                                                     4
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1192      Doc: 67         Filed: 03/04/2025     Pg: 5 of 15




        because the Members would have all their electricity needs met by APCO—including the

        power to energize the batteries—and the agreements contemplated that the quantity of

        electricity the Members purchased would vary from day to day. Blue Ridge Power Agency,

        181 FERC ¶ 61,048 at PP 29–36 (2022).            Further, the Commission noted that the

        agreements prohibited the installation of “generation resources,” but reasoned that “battery

        storage cannot be defined as a generation resource” under the agreements “because a

        battery can only store Energy for later use, but cannot produce energy.” Id. P 29 (citing N.

        Carolina E. Mun. Power Agency (NCEMPA), 172 FERC ¶ 61,249 at P 37 (2020)

        (concluding battery storage is not “inherently a form of generation” when charged with

        electricity from wholesale seller)). The Commission also found that installation and use of

        battery storage would not violate prohibitions on “newly constructed or purchased

        generation resources” or entering “new power purchase agreements.” Id. P 36.

               The Commission reached a different conclusion with respect to APCO’s contract

        with Virginia Tech. It pointed to that agreement’s limitation on construction of “New

        Generation” and the fact that the agreement expressly listed “battery storage” as a form of

        New Generation. Id. PP 37–38. Further, the Virginia Tech agreement precluded the use

        of BST for the purpose of demand reduction, and Blue Ridge intended to use it for that

        purpose. The Commission disagreed with Blue Ridge’s arguments that the Virginia Tech

        agreements permitted installation of greater BST capacity than its express terms.

        Therefore, it concluded that Virginia Tech lacked “broad and uncapped” authority to install

        BST, and any installation of that technology would be subject to the capacity limitations

        and educational-purpose requirements contained in the contract. Id. P 44.

                                                     5
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1192      Doc: 67          Filed: 03/04/2025     Pg: 6 of 15




               APCO timely appeals. It primarily focuses its arguments on the Commission’s

        interpretation of the agreements with the Members. It argues that the agency decision

        should be vacated because the Commission failed to cite to Virginia law, would have

        reached a different result if it had, and substituted a policy judgment for a legal one.

        Finally, it contends the Commission erred in failing to ensure rates would be “just and

        reasonable” if the Members installed the proposed BST.               No party appeals the

        Commission’s order with respect to the Virginia Tech agreement.



                                                     II.

               An agency action, like the Commission’s order, is reviewed under the familiar

        “arbitrary and capricious” standard. Sierra Club v. State Water Control Bd., 64 F.4th 187,

        194 (4th Cir. 2023). “Agency action is arbitrary and capricious if the agency relies on

        factors that Congress did not intend for it to consider, entirely ignores important aspects of

        the problem, explains its decision in a manner contrary to the evidence before it, or reaches

        a decision that is so implausible that it cannot be ascribed to a difference in view.” Friends

        of Buckingham v. State Air Pollution Control Bd., 947 F.3d 68, 80 (4th Cir. 2020) (quoting

        Appalachian Voices v. State Water Control Bd., 912 F.3d 746, 753 (4th Cir. 2019)). In

        other words, we “must ensure that the agency has examined the relevant data and

        articulated a satisfactory explanation for its action.” Mountain Valley Pipeline, LLC v. N.

        Carolina Dep’t of Envtl. Quality, 990 F.3d 818, 826 (4th Cir. 2021) (quoting Defs. of

        Wildlife v. Dep’t of the Interior, 931 F.3d 339, 345 (4th Cir. 2019)).



                                                      6
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1192      Doc: 67        Filed: 03/04/2025     Pg: 7 of 15




              This case also concerns the Commission’s interpretation of a contract.

        “[I]nterpretation of [a] contract’s language” is “a question of law clearly within the

        competence of courts,” so our review is de novo. Burgin v. Off. Personnel Mgmt., 120

        F.3d 494, 497–98 (4th Cir. 1997) (citing 5 U.S.C. § 706).



                                                   A.

              We start with the interpretation of the agreements. The Commission determined the

        Members were not constrained from installing BST and discharging the batteries at times

        of peak customer demand. It began by emphasizing the agreements’ exclusive focus on

        “generation” and its requirements that APCO serve as the exclusive electricity wholesaler

        for the Members to meet demand. Blue Ridge, 181 FERC ¶ 61,048 at P 28. The agreements

        expressly prohibited the Members from using “newly constructed or purchased generation

        resources”—in other words, the Members could not build their own power plants or

        purchase electricity from any entity besides APCO. Id. P 29.

              The Commission determined that battery storage would not affect the parties’

        obligations under the agreements because batteries “can only store Energy for later use,

        but cannot produce Energy.” Id. (citing NCEMPA, 172 FERC ¶ 61,249 at P 37). To further

        support its decision, FERC reasoned the agreements acknowledged electricity demand (and

        how much Members must purchase from APCO) would fluctuate from day to day. The

        agreements also did not fix minimum purchase or usage requirements. Therefore, the

        Commission found that while the agreements might change the timing of the Members’



                                                    7
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1192      Doc: 67         Filed: 03/04/2025     Pg: 8 of 15




        use of electricity purchased from APCO, it would not change the fact the members were

        purchasing electricity exclusively from APCO as the contracts require. Id. PP 30–31.

               The Commission also rejected APCO’s argument that the Members were precluded

        from installing BST because the agreements did not expressly allow them to do so. Again,

        the Commission pointed out the agreements’ language only requires the Members “to take

        their full requirements service from APCO and to pay a charge based on those

        requirements.” Id. P 31. APCO also argued that the use of the batteries to reduce peak

        demand (also referred to in the industry as “peak shaving”) was not expressly permitted in

        the agreements, and therefore prohibited. Id. P 32. But the Commission rejected that

        argument too, noting that the agreements did not proscribe that use of batteries, and the

        terms in fact contemplated fluctuating demand without limitation as to how the Members

        might effectuate that fluctuation. Id. P 33. Accordingly, the Commission determined BST

        installation would not violate the agreements.

               The Commission cited cases in the federal courts discussing fundamental contract

        principles and constructive canons to support its order. See id. PP 31–33 & nn. 53, 57 ((“a

        company is not ‘entitled to be relieved of its improvident bargain’”) (quoting Fed. Power

        Comm’n v. Sierra Pac. Power Co., 350 U.S. 348, 355 (1956)) and (“the canon expressio

        unius est exclusio alterius [the expression of one thing is the exclusion of the other]”

        applies only where items are of an associated group or series) (quoting Barnhart v. Peabody

        Coal Co., 537 U.S. 149, 168 (2003))). APCO argues this was error because the agreements

        called for interpretation under Virginia law.



                                                        8
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1192      Doc: 67         Filed: 03/04/2025     Pg: 9 of 15




               As we explain below, APCO does not demonstrate that Virginia law warrants a

        result different than the Commission’s. Its order declaring BST installation would not

        violate the agreements was therefore not “arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or

        otherwise not in accordance with law.”       5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A). With that said, the

        Commission has authority to issue a declaratory order interpreting a contract between

        private parties (no party argues it lacks that authority here) and it is good practice, at a

        minimum, to honor choice of law clauses incorporated in an agreement. We now address

        APCO’s arguments.

               APCO contends that the agreements’ plain terms foreclose BST installation. It cites

        the language stating APCO “shall sell and deliver” and the Members “shall exclusively

        receive and purchase Full Requirements Electric Service sufficient to serve Customer’s

        Retail Load.” Pet. Br. at 22. APCO then refers to provisions requiring it be “solely

        responsible for satisfying all requirements and paying all costs incurred or to be incurred

        to provide Full Requirements Service” and the Members “pay for such Full Requirements

        Electric Service[.]” Id. at 23. With this language in the background, APCO then asserts

        the compensation structure of the agreements—measuring peak monthly use and allocating

        costs accordingly—does not allow BST because using it to reduce the Members’ peak

        electrical loads would “allow [the Members] to avoid paying for the full cost of the

        generation needed to serve them.” Id. at 23–24.

               It does not follow that the exclusive buyer-seller relationship and compensation

        terms proscribe the installation of battery technology here. APCO argues we cannot ignore

        that compensation is calculated by reference to peak demand and BST’s intended use to

                                                     9
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1192      Doc: 67          Filed: 03/04/2025     Pg: 10 of 15




        reduce peak demand because “a court should read the contract as a single document and

        give meaning to every clause where possible.” Id. at 24 (citing Berry v. Klinger, 300 S.E.2d

        792, 796 (Va. 1983)). In other words, APCO asserts that BST installation is inconsistent

        with the agreements’ express intent for an exclusive supply-demand agreement. But the

        problem with that argument is that nothing about BST installation changes the fact that the

        Members will buy all the power needed to meet demand from APCO. Whether current

        flows directly to end-use customers or first makes a figurative “stop” in battery storage, it

        remains true that the Members purchase that electricity from APCO. Even if the Members

        strategically discharge the batteries to reduce load at the time load is measured for purposes

        of compensation, APCO is the original source of the electricity as the agreements require.

               APCO also looks to the expressio unius canon to support its preferred readings of

        the agreements. Under Virginia law, that maxim “provides that the mention of a specific

        item . . . implies that other omitted items were not intended to be included[.]” Blake Constr.

        Co./Poole & Kent v. Upper Occoquan Sewage Auth., 587 S.E.2d 711, 718 (Va. 2003)

        (quoting Smith Mountain Lake Yacht Club, Inc. v. Ramaker, 542 S.E.2d 392, 395 (Va.

        2001)). The contracts require APCO to provide electric service “regardless of changes in

        Retail Load arising from daily fluctuations, increased or decreased usage, extreme weather

        and/or similar events.” Pet. Br. at 28. APCO argues “systematic use of storage” to reduce

        electricity load is “not analogous” to any of the named items in this list and so it is

        prohibited. Pet. Br. at 28.

               The expressio unius canon—which is nonbinding under Virginia law, see Turner v.

        Commonwealth, 758 S.E.2d 81, 86 (Va. Ct. App. 2014)—does not require or even point

                                                     10
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1192         Doc: 67      Filed: 03/04/2025      Pg: 11 of 15




        towards a different result than the one the Commission reached. Nothing in the agreement

        suggests that this list comprehensively sets out the only permissible types of “fluctuations”

        in peak demand—indeed, the items listed are mostly expressed in already broad terms:

        “daily fluctuations, increased or decreased usage,” and “similar events.” Pet. Br. at 28. We

        therefore decline to vacate the Commission’s decision based upon this nonbinding

        interpretive canon.

               APCO also argues that the Commission improperly looked beyond the four corners

        of the agreements by referencing its NCEMPA decision, 172 FERC ¶ 61,249 (2020) (BST

        installation permitted in part because it is not “inherently” generation), and the fact that

        several Members’ end-use customers participated in a demand response program, which

        has the effect of reducing electricity load at peak times, in its order. APCO contends the

        Court was “not at liberty to search for its meaning beyond the instrument itself.” Pet. Br.

        at 32 (quoting Hitachi Credit Am. Corp. v. Signet Bank, 166 F.3d 614, 624 (4th Cir. 1999)

        (recognizing principle under Virginia law)).

               We disagree that this requires us to vacate the Commission’s order. APCO seems

        to suggest the Commission relied on its NCEMPA decision as controlling in this case, but

        that is not quite correct. For starters, the Commission focused extensively on the language

        in the agreements and the agreements’ failure to define generation to include battery

        storage or forbid Member-induced changes in electricity demand by use of battery storage.

        Blue Ridge, 181 FERC ¶ 61,048 at PP 27–33. The Commission then zeroed in on its

        NCEMPA decision, acknowledged that that order did not “dictate” the outcome in this case,

        but concluded that it was “highly relevant” to its interpretation of the Members’ agreements

                                                     11
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1192      Doc: 67         Filed: 03/04/2025     Pg: 12 of 15




        with APCO. Id. PP 34–36. The Commission supported its order by pointing out the

        conclusion it reached aligned with a prior agency decision under similar facts, which was

        not error.

               Nor was it erroneous to point out in a single sentence that some end-use customers

        participated in a demand response program without objection from APCO. After noting

        the agreements acknowledged electricity demand would fluctuate and placed no limitation

        on how the Members “can effectuate such variation,” id. P33, the Commission cited these

        customers’ participation as examples of similar conduct APCO had ostensibly permitted

        until this dispute arose. This “course of performance” justification makes up only a small

        part of the Commission’s reasoning and does not require us to vacate its order.

               APCO last argues that the Virginia Tech agreement—which expressly places limits

        upon BST installation and use—makes clear that the agreements with the Members

        prohibit BST installation and use, too. It now asks us, under the assumption the agreements

        are ambiguous as to whether BST installation is allowed, to find the Virginia Tech

        agreement shows the parties also intended the agreements at issue to prohibit BST.

               The agreements between the Members and APCO were executed in 2017, and the

        Virginia Tech agreement was executed in 2019. Virginia law recognizes that a contract

        may be modified by a subsequent agreement or course of conduct. See Smith Dev., Inc. v.

        Conway, 896 S.E.2d 88, 97 (Va. Ct. App. 2024). But the party asserting modification must

        show the parties had a “mutual intention” to modify the agreement, and that intention must

        be shown by “clear, unequivocal and convincing evidence, direct or implied.” Id. (quoting

        Gov’t Emps. Ins. Co. v. Hall, 533 S.E.2d 615, 618 (Va. 2000)).

                                                    12
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1192      Doc: 67         Filed: 03/04/2025     Pg: 13 of 15




              The Virginia Tech agreement’s terms do not suggest any mutual intent to modify

        the Salem, Radford, and Craig-Botetourt agreements to forbid BST, let alone suggest the

        parties intended that meaning from the start. First, even though Blue Ridge negotiates on

        behalf of the Members, the agreements only bind APCO and each respective Member.

        Second, the terms of the agreements with the Members could have been different than the

        Virginia Tech agreement for any number of reasons; it makes sense that the provisions of

        a wholesale electricity purchase contract for a college campus might be different than one

        for a municipality. For example, the parties may seek to accommodate a significant drop

        in power demand during school breaks. It is also possible that APCO decided to make sure

        BST was expressly limited or prohibited in agreements after 2017 and sought to include

        the term’s presence in the Virginia Tech agreement. At bottom, we are not persuaded that

        the Salem, Radford, or Craig-Botetourt agreements prohibit those entities from installing

        and using BST, whether looking within the four corners of their agreements with APCO or

        by reference to APCO’s agreement to sell electricity to Virginia Tech.

              We conclude by reiterating that honoring choice of law clauses in private contracts,

        when appropriate, is good agency practice so that parties may be afforded the benefit of

        their negotiated agreement. Our sister circuits have, for example, vacated FERC orders

        where the Commission did not adhere to the parties’ selected outcome-determinative law.

        See, e.g., Louisville Gas & Elec. Co. v. FERC, 988 F.3d 841 (6th Cir. 2021) (Commission’s

        failure to honor choice of law clause left important issues unresolved following agency

        proceedings); S. Cal. Edison Co. v. FERC, 502 F.3d 176 (D.C. Cir. 2007) (Commission’s

        failure to apply California law left unclear whether condition precedent was satisfied). In

                                                    13
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1192       Doc: 67          Filed: 03/04/2025      Pg: 14 of 15




        this case, APCO has not persuaded us that the Commission’s decision would have, or even

        could have, been different if it had looked to Virginia law instead. Nor has it shown that

        the Commission ignored relevant contract principles. We therefore decline to vacate the

        agency decision on the grounds it was contrary to law.



                                                      B.

               We now address APCO’s argument that the Commission’s decision must be vacated

        because it will result in unjust and unreasonable electricity rates, in violation of the Federal

        Power Act. See 16 U.S.C. § 824d(a) (“All rates . . . shall be just and reasonable”). APCO

        contends the Commission’s decision contravenes a duty to prevent cost-shifting among

        customers, because the Members could discharge the batteries when APCO was otherwise

        providing the needed electricity from facilities it had already invested in.

               We reject this argument. First, because the Commission was not addressing a newly

        filed contract, rate tariff, or claim that an existing contract or rate tariff had become unjust

        or unreasonable. Instead, the Commission was tasked with answering the question of

        whether the agreements permitted BST installation and use.                 We cannot say the

        Commission erred by deciding the rates issue was irrelevant to the matter before it. See

        Mobil Oil Expl. & Producing Se. Inc. v. United Distrib. Cos., 498 U.S. 211, 230–31 (1991)

        (agencies “enjoy[] broad discretion” in determining how to handle “related, yet discrete,

        issues” and an agency “need not solve every problem before it in the same proceeding”).

               Further, the agreements say what they say. As we have explained, these contracts

        that the cities of Salem and Radford, Virginia and the Craig-Botetourt Electric Cooperative

                                                      14
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1192      Doc: 67          Filed: 03/04/2025    Pg: 15 of 15




        executed with APCO do not prevent those entities from installing BST. These are contracts

        between private parties governing the terms of wholesale power purchases.             The

        Commission did not err when it focused on the terms of the agreements before it and

        concluded BST installation as the Members intended would not violate those agreements

        and did not engage in speculation as to whether BST would result in unjust or unreasonable

        rates at some time in the future.



                                                    III.

               For the foregoing reasons, we deny APCO’s petition for review.

                                                                PETITION FOR REVIEW DENIED




                                                    15
