                     FOR PUBLICATION

     UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
          FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE;                                No. 23-636
CENTER FOR BIOLOGICAL
DIVERSITY; CLEAN WATER
ACTION; FOOD & WATER                                EPA No.
WATCH; SURFRIDER                                    EPA-HQ-
FOUNDATION; ENVIRONMENT                            OW2018-0618
AMERICA; BAYOU CITY
WATERKEEPER; BLACK
WARRIOR RIVERKEEPER;                                  OPINION
HEALTHY GULF; SAN ANTONIO
BAY ESTUARINE
WATERKEEPER; TENNESSEE
RIVERKEEPER; SAN FRANCISCO
BAYKEEPER,

               Petitioners,

    v.

UNITED STATES
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY; LEE M. ZELDIN,*
Administrator of the United States


*
 Under Fed. R. App. P 43(c)(2), Lee M. Zeldin has been substituted for
his predecessor, Michael S. Regan, as Administrator of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency.
2               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


Environmental Protection Agency,

               Respondents,


AMERICAN FUEL &
PETROCHEMICAL
MANUFACTURERS; AMERICAN
PETROLEUM INSTITUTE,

               Intervenors.



           On Petition for Review of Actions of the
             Environmental Protection Agency

           Argued and Submitted December 5, 2024
                    Pasadena, California

                     Filed June 18, 2025

    Before: Carlos T. Bea, John B. Owens, and Lucy H. Koh,
                        Circuit Judges.

                    Opinion by Judge Koh;
                    Dissent by Judge Bea
                 WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                      3


                          SUMMARY**


                        Clean Water Act

    The panel granted in part the petition for review of
EPA’s decision refusing to revise the technology-based
pollution limits, guidelines and standards (collectively
referred to as “ELGs”) for certain industries previously
promulgated by EPA under the Clean Water Act (“CWA”)
and remanded for EPA to reconsider its decision or provide
a fuller explanation.
    The CWA requires that EPA periodically review
previously promulgated ELGs and revise them if
appropriate. Pursuant to these obligations, EPA reviewed
existing ELGs in an action titled Effluent Guidelines
Program Plan 15 (“Program Plan 15”). Petitioners challenge
EPA’s decision in Program Plan 15 refusing to revise the
ELGs for seven specific source categories (the “Seven
Industrial Categories”) that Petitioners contend are
substantially out of date.
    The panel held that EPA’s refusal to revise the ELGs for
the Seven Industrial Categories in Program Plan 15
constituted final agency action and was thus reviewable
under the APA. The panel rejected intervenor’s argument
that the court lacked jurisdiction, instead agreeing with
petitioners and EPA that the court had jurisdiction under
CWA Section 509(b)(1). Consistent with past precedent, a
challenge such as this to the substance of existing ELGs falls
within Section 509(b)(1). The panel held that Petitioners had

**
  This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
4             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


not waived their challenge by failing to raise their claims
with the agency. However, the panel concluded that
plaintiffs had waived their challenge to EPA’s failure to
revise new source performance standards, one type of ELG.
    On the merits, the panel agreed with EPA that it was not
required to revise every outdated ELG, and that EPA had
some discretion in carrying out its periodic review
obligations. The panel nonetheless concluded EPA acted in
a manner that was arbitrary and capricious by refusing to
revise the ELGs for the Seven Industrial Categories. EPA
failed to properly consider advances in pollution control
technology, failed to properly consider pretreatment
standards and guidelines applicable to indirect dischargers,
and failed to properly consider information relating to
pollutants not currently covered by the applicable ELGs. The
panel also found that EPA’s decision with respect to the
plastics molding and forming category was arbitrary and
capricious because EPA failed to adequately explain its
decision.
    Dissenting, Judge Bea wrote that because petitioners do
not seek review of any EPA actions in promulgating or
approving ELGs, this court, as an appellate court, lacks
original and exclusive jurisdiction over the action under
Section 509(b)(1) of the CWA and this court’s binding
precedent in Our Children’s Earth Foundation v. United
States Environmental Protection Agency, 527 F.3d 842 (9th
Cir. 2008). Where, as here, a plaintiff challenges the
screening methodology used in EPA’s review process, the
original and exclusive jurisdiction of a court of appeals may
not be invoked merely by styling the claim as a challenge to
the substance of the ELGs that EPA’s review process has
deprioritized for further study. Petitioners challenge not
whether the substance of the ELGs for the Seven Industrial
              WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                5


Categories complies with the CWA’s substantive
requirements, but whether the Category Ranking Analysis
satisfies EPA’s review obligations under the CWA.



                        COUNSEL

Meg Parish (argued), Jennifer Duggan, and Sarah Kula,
Environmental Integrity Project, Washington, D.C.; Hannah
M.M. Connor, Center for Biological Diversity, Washington,
D.C.; for Petitioners.
Gustavus Maxwell (argued), Attorney, Environment &
Natural Resources Division, United States Department of
Justice, Denver, Colorado; Sue S. Chen, Attorney; Todd
Kim, Assistant Attorney General; Environment & Natural
Resources Division, United States Department of Justice,
Washington, D.C.; Krista Hughes, Attorney, United States
Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, D.C.; for
Respondents.
Jeffrey S. Longsworth (argued) and John A. Sheehan, Earth
& Water Law LLC, Washington, D.C., for Intervenors.



                        OPINION

KOH, Circuit Judge:

    The Clean Water Act (“CWA” or “Act”) requires the
Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) to periodically
review the various technology-based pollution limits,
guidelines and standards (collectively referred to as “ELGs”)
6              WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


that EPA has promulgated under the Act and revise those
ELGs if appropriate. This case is an original jurisdiction suit
brought by various environmental organizations challenging
EPA’s decision not to revise the ELGs for seven specific
source categories (the “Seven Industrial Categories”).
Petitioners argue that EPA’s decision not to revise the ELGs
for the Seven Industrial Categories was arbitrary and
capricious. For the reasons set forth below, we agree in part
and remand to EPA for further proceedings.
    I. BACKGROUND               AND         PROCEDURAL
       HISTORY
      A. Statutory Background
    The CWA prohibits the discharge of any pollutant except
in compliance with the Act. See 33 U.S.C. § 1311(a). To
comply with the Act, dischargers are typically required to
obtain a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(“NPDES”) permit. This case concerns the CWA’s
technology-based requirements, which set limits on
discharges that are incorporated into NPDES permits. Those
requirements can be divided into two broad categories.
    First, there are limits that apply to facilities that
discharge directly into the waters of the United States (i.e.
direct dischargers). Direct dischargers are subject to
“effluent limitations,” “effluent guidelines,” and “new source
performance standards.” See 33 U.S.C. §§ 1311(b),
1314(b), 1316(b)(1)(B). Effluent limitation guidelines are
regulations used by permit issuers to formulate specific
effluent limitations that are incorporated into particular
permits for existing sources. See id. §§ 1311(b), 1314(b),
1362(11). New source performance standards are similar
except that they apply to new, rather than existing, sources
and require a stricter level of control. See id. § 1316(b).
                 WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                       7


    Second, there are limits for facilities whose discharges
reach waters of the United States through publicly-owned
treatment works (i.e. indirect dischargers). These are
“pretreatment standards,” “pretreatment guidelines,” and
“pretreatment standards for new sources.” See id.
§§ 1314(g), 1317(b)(1), 1317(c). These limitations are
analogous to the effluent limitations, effluent guidelines, and
new source performance standards applicable to direct
dischargers. EPA collectively describes the six types of
limitations referenced above as “Effluent Limitations,
Guidelines, and Standards,” or “ELGs.”1
    Because ELGs are based on the technology a given type
of plant uses, ELGs are set by EPA on an industry-by-
industry basis. To date, EPA has promulgated ELGs for 59
industries, referred to as “source categories.” See generally
40 C.F.R. Subchapter N. Within each source category there
are, in turn, ELGs for distinct subcategories. For example,
one industrial category is Inorganic Chemicals
Manufacturing, and within that category there are dozens of
subcategories such as Aluminum Chloride Production or
Aluminum Sulfate Production. See 40. C.F.R. Part 415.
    The CWA contains various obligations for EPA to
periodically review existing ELGs, which are the focus of
this case:



1
  As explained infra Section II.D, Petitioners have waived any argument
concerning new source performance standards or pretreatment standards
for new sources. Accordingly, unless otherwise indicated, we use “ELG”
to refer to effluent guidelines, effluent limitations, pretreatment
standards, and pretreatment guidelines (i.e., ELGs for existing sources
only).
8                WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


    •   Effluent limitations “shall be reviewed at least every
        five years and, if appropriate, revised pursuant to the
        procedure established under such paragraph.” 33
        U.S.C. § 1311(d).
    •   EPA must “at least annually . . . revise, if appropriate”
        effluent guidelines. Id. § 1314(b).
    •   “[F]rom time to time, as technology and alternatives
        change, [EPA must] revise” new source performance
        standards and new source pretreatment standards. Id.
        § 1316(b)(1)(B); see id. § 1317(c) (requiring new
        source pretreatment standards be promulgated
        “simultaneously with the promulgation of” new source
        performance standards).
    •   “[F]rom time to time, as control technology, processes,
        operating methods, or other alternatives change, [EPA
        must] revise [pretreatment] standards following the
        procedure established by this subsection for
        promulgation of such standards.” Id. § 1317(b)(2)
        (italics added).
    •   For pretreatment guidelines, EPA must “review at
        least annually . . . and, if appropriate, revise guidelines
        for pretreatment of pollutants which [EPA] determines
        are not susceptible to treatment by publicly owned
        treatment works.” Id. § 1314(g).

    In addition to these various periodic review
requirements, CWA Section 304(m) requires EPA to
“biennially” “publish in the Federal Register a plan which
shall” among other things “establish a schedule for the
annual review and revision of promulgated effluent
guidelines, in accordance with [Section 1314(b)].” Id.
               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                9


§ 1314(m)(1)(A) (italics added). EPA is required to “provide
for public review and comment on the plan prior to final
publication.” Id. § 1314(m)(2). By its terms, this obligation
applies only to effluent guidelines; however, in practice EPA
describes the results of its other periodic review obligations
in the report mandated by Section 304(m) as well. See 3-ER-
602–4, Effluent Guidelines Program Plan 15 (“Program Plan
15”) at 2-3 to 2-4.
     B. Administrative History
    This case concerns the most recent EPA report issued on
January 19, 2023—titled “Effluent Guidelines Program Plan
15,” or “Program Plan 15”—prepared pursuant to CWA
Section 304(m), in which EPA carried out the various
periodic review obligations described above. 3 ER 592–658,
Program Plan 15. The CWA does not set forth any specific
procedures and EPA has not adopted regulations concerning
either the periodic review obligations or the Section 304(m)
plan, aside from the language quoted above. However,
according to EPA, it typically issues a “preliminary plan”
one year and then issues a “program plan” the following
year, which responds to public comments received on the
preliminary plan.
    EPA’s process for deciding whether to revise a given
ELG proceeds in multiple steps. See 3-ER-612, Program
Plan 15 at 4-1. First, EPA conducts a “Category Ranking
Analysis” that compares discharge data across all 59 source
categories with existing ELGs to identify potential
candidates for revision. See 3-ER-614, Program Plan 15, at
5-1. EPA claims that it adjusts the way it conducts its
Category Ranking Analysis every year “to analyze available
data from differing vantage points.” Second, EPA selects
several source categories for further consideration in
10             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


“Preliminary Category Reviews.” See 3-ER-612, Program
Plan 15, at 4-1. In selecting source categories to include,
EPA claims that it relies not only on the results of the
Category Ranking Analysis, but also on other factors “such
as stakeholder input and Administration priorities.” 3-ER-
686, 2021 Preliminary Review of Industrial Point Source
Categories (“Plan 15 Preliminary Review”) at 1. Third,
based on the results of the Preliminary Category Review,
EPA will select one or several source categories for which it
will conduct “Detailed Studies,” which can take several
years. See, e.g., 2-ER-469–71, Preliminary Effluent
Guidelines Program Plan 15 (“Preliminary Plan 15”) at 6-1
to 6-3 (describing EPA’s Detailed Study of the Meat and
Poultry Products source category). At the conclusion of
these steps, EPA decides whether to initiate a rulemaking to
revise the ELG. If EPA declines to revise any given ELG,
the existing ELG that sets forth the pollution limits with
which industry must comply remains in place until the next
review cycle when EPA repeats the process.
    This case is focused on how EPA conducted the first step
of its review process, the Category Ranking Analysis. In
Preliminary Plan 15, EPA conducted its Category Ranking
Analysis by calculating the concentration of pollutants in the
discharges from each of the 59 industrial source categories
that are currently subject to ELGs. See 2-ER-488, Review of
Industrial Wastewater Discharge Monitoring Report Data
for Preliminary Plan 15 (“Concentration Ranking Analysis”)
at 6. EPA performed this calculation using data drawn from
discharge monitoring reports (“DMR data”) that each direct
discharger subject to an NPDES permit must report to EPA.
See 3-ER-450-52, Preliminary Plan 15, at 3-1 to 3-3. Using
this calculation, EPA then ordinally ranked each of the
source categories from highest to lowest. EPA then “selected
                WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                     11


for further review” the seven source categories that ranked
the highest in this “Concentration Ranking Analysis.” 2 3-
ER-454-55, Preliminary Plan 15, at 5-5 to 5-6. In addition,
EPA also chose to conduct a further review of the Landfills
Category (40 C.F.R. Part 409), even though it did not rank
highly in the Concentration Ranking Analysis because it was
“identified for review through stakeholder input” that
suggested landfills may be a major source of per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances (“PFAS”) that are not currently
regulated, but are a major administration priority. See 3-ER-
459, 464, Preliminary Plan 15, at 5-10, 5-15. With respect to
all ELGs not selected, EPA stated as follows:

        For categories not discussed in detail in this
        Preliminary Plan 15, EPA is currently not
        prioritizing further review. As described in
        detail below and in documents in the docket
        for this preliminary plan, EPA does not have
        data indicating that these categories
        discharge quantities of pollutants that would
        warrant revising the ELGs at this time.
        Additionally, given EPA’s available
        resources, these categories are less important
        than the other [point source categories] for
        which EPA is undertaking further study and
        or rulemaking. EPA solicits comment on this



2
 These were Metal Products and Machinery (40 CFR Part 438), Battery
Manufacturing (40 CFR Part 461), Explosives Manufacturing (40 CFR
Part 457), Canned and Preserved Seafood Processing (40 CFR Part 408),
Paint Formulating (40 CFR Part 446), Sugar Processing (40 CFR Part
409), and Soap and Detergent Manufacturing (40 CFR Part 417).
12              WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


        approach and will continue to review all
        categories while preparing the next plan.

3-ER-450, Preliminary Plan 15, at 5-1.
    In Program Plan 15, EPA conducted the Category
Ranking Analysis in a slightly different way. Instead of
looking at the concentration of pollutants, EPA used the
same DMR data to calculate the total pollutant load
discharged by each industrial category. See 3-ER-668–9,
2021 Annual Review of Industrial Wastewater Discharges
(“Load Ranking Analysis”) at 1–2; 3-ER-614–18, Program
Plan 15, at 5-1 to 5-5. Although the results of this “Load
Ranking Analysis” differed markedly from the
Concentration Ranking Analysis, EPA did not change the
categories for which it intended to conduct further review,
stating that the Load Ranking Analysis “did not present any
findings that altered EPA’s decision on prioritization for
industrial category reviews targeting PFAS at this time.” 3-
ER-616, Program Plan 15, at 5-3. The result was that any
categories screened out at this first step remained unchanged
without any further consideration by EPA. Unless otherwise
indicated, the “Category Ranking Analysis” refers to both
the Concentration Ranking Analysis and Load Ranking
Analysis.
          C.     Petitioners’ Claims
   In this lawsuit, Petitioners3 challenge EPA’s decision in
Program Plan 15 not to revise the ELGs for seven specific

3
 Petitioners include the following environmental groups: Waterkeeper
Alliance, Center for Biological Diversity, Clean Water Action, Food &
Water Watch, Healthy Gulf, Environment America, Surfrider
Foundation, Bayou City Waterkeeper, Black Warrior Riverkeeper, San
               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                  13


industrial categories: (1) Petroleum Refining; (2) Organic
Chemicals, Plastics, and Synthetic Fibers Manufacturing
(“OCPSF”); (3) Inorganic Chemical Manufacturing;
(4) Fertilizer Manufacturing; (5) Pesticide Chemical
Manufacturing; (6) Plastics Molding and Forming Facilities;
and (7) Nonferrous Metals Manufacturing (the “Seven
Industrial Categories”). Six of the Seven Industrial
Categories were screened out at the first step of EPA’s
review process using the Category Ranking Analysis.
Petitioners did not submit specific comments challenging the
ELGs for four of these source categories—OCPSF,
Inorganic Chemical Manufacturing, Pesticide Chemical
Manufacturing, and Nonferrous Metals Manufacturing—
and accordingly EPA did not offer any specific explanation
for why it was not conducting further review of them.
    Petitioners submitted specific comments about, among
other things, the Petroleum Refining and Fertilizer
Manufacturing categories, as well as EPA’s annual review
process more generally. See 2-ER-0501–02, EIP Annual
Review Comment at 2–3; 3-ER-549, Earth Justice Fertilizer
Comment, at 8; 3-ER-517–31, EIP Petroleum Comment, at
3–18. For example, Petitioners’ comments took issue with
EPA’s failure to consider available pollution control
technology in EPA’s screening level review and EPA’s
reliance on incomplete DMR data. See 2-ER-0501–02, EIP
Annual Review Comment, at 2–3; 3-ER-549, 554–58, Earth




Antonio Bay Estuarine Waterkeeper, Tennessee Riverkeeper, and San
Francisco Baykeeper.
14               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


Justice Fertilizer Comment, at 8, 13–17; 2-ER-536–59, Food
and Water Watch Comment, at 2–5.4
    In its comment responses in Program Plan 15, EPA
included sections concerning criticism of its ELG review
process, the age of its regulations, and the way in which the
agency accounts for technology, the subjects of the instant
appeal. See 3-ER-995–1004, Program Plan 15 Comment
Responses, at 252–63. EPA also acknowledged that the
DMR data it used included only limited information about
unregulated pollutants and no information about indirect
dischargers. See 3-ER-669, Load Ranking Analysis, at 2; 2-
ER-484, Concentration Ranking Analysis, at 2. EPA offered
some additional explanation as to the Petroleum Refining
and Fertilizer Manufacturing categories, discussed below.
Finally, although not announced in Preliminary Plan 15, in
Program Plan 15 EPA carried out a preliminary review of
the Plastics Molding and Forming category, also discussed
below.
    Petroleum Refining. Petitioners submitted a comment
concerning the ELG for the Petroleum Refining category in
which they argued this category was a substantial source of
pollution, the ELG for the category had not been revised
since the 1980s, the ELG was accordingly out of date with
existing technologies, and the ELG did not cover many

4
  Petitioners’ complaints about EPA’s periodic review process echo
similar critiques made by the Government Accountability Office in a
2012 report, which criticized EPA’s review process for its failure to
consider available pollution control technologies, and EPA’s flawed
reliance on only limited data about unregulated pollutants and indirect
dischargers. See 2-ER-308–11, 320–21, GAO, Water Pollution: EPA
Has Improved Its Review of Effluent Guidelines but Could Benefit from
More Information on Treatment Technologies, at 28–31, 40–41.
               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                 15


existing pollutants that such facilities emit. See 3-ER-517–
31, EIP Petroleum Comment, at 3–18. In its comment
response, EPA discussed a 2019 Detailed Study of the
Petroleum Refining category that focused on discharges of
metals from refineries. See 4-ER-1011, Program Plan 15
Comment Responses, at 268. EPA concluded that “[t]he
Petroleum Refining Category did not rank high compared to
other categories in the 2019 and 2020 annual rankings [i.e.
the Concentration Ranking Analysis] . . . or other current
EPA priorities for rulemaking. Therefore, EPA is not
prioritizing this category for further review at this time.” Id.
    Fertilizer Manufacturing. Petitioners submitted a
comment concerning the ELG for Fertilizer Manufacturing
that argued fertilizer manufacturing releases significant
pollution, the ELG for Fertilizer Manufacturing was out of
date, and EPA did not adequately consider a representative
sample of facilities in deciding not to revise this ELG in
Preliminary Plan 15. See 3-ER-545–563, Earth Justice
Fertilizer Comment, at 1–22. In the prior review cycle, in
Program Plan 14, EPA identified Fertilizer Manufacturing as
a category the agency was prioritizing for further review
based on the category’s contribution to nutrient pollution.
See 4-ER-1013, Program Plan 15 Comment Responses, at
270; 3-ER-368, Nutrient Report, at 3-2. In Program Plan 15,
however, EPA explained that it “broadened the focus of
pollutants considered in the screening-level review beyond
just nutrients” by conducting its Concentration Ranking
Analysis. 4-ER-1013, Program Plan 15 Comment
Responses, at 270. EPA explained that Fertilizer
Manufacturing “did not rank highly as compared to the other
categories when considering additional pollutants and,
importantly, other current EPA priorities for rulemaking.”
16               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


Id. Based on this, EPA decided not to conduct further review
of this category. See id.
     Plastics Molding and Forming. EPA advanced the
Plastics Molding and Forming category to the Preliminary
Review stage as part of its broader effort to address PFAS
contamination. See 3-ER-623, Program Plan 15, at 5-10. In
carrying out its Preliminary Review of this category, EPA
identified information that suggested this ELG was not as
strict as it could have been with respect to some pollutants,
and that the industry emitted other pollutants that were
unregulated. See 3-ER-624, Program Plan 15, at 5-11. But
EPA concluded that it was “not prioritizing” this category
because “revisions to the ELG are unlikely to result in
significant pollutant discharge reductions relative to the
other point source categories discussed in this Plan.” 3-ER-
623–25, Program Plan 15, at 5-10 to 5-12.
    II. PRELIMINARY MATTERS
    There are four preliminary matters we must address
before discussing the merits of Petitioners’ challenge. First,
EPA argues Program Plan 15 is unreviewable because it
does not constitute “final agency action” within the meaning
of the APA. Second, Intervenors,5 but not EPA, argue that
we lack appellate jurisdiction because this suit does not fall
within the CWA’s grant of original appellate jurisdiction.
Third, EPA argues that Petitioners have waived their
challenge to EPA’s decision not to revise certain ELGs
because Petitioners did not comment on them during the

5
  American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers Association and
American Petroleum Institute (collectively “Intervenors”) filed a motion
to intervene, which was subsequently granted by a motions panel.
                 WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                        17


notice and comment period. Fourth, although not raised by
EPA, Petitioners have waived any argument relating to new
source performance standards because they failed to
meaningfully discuss such standards in their opening brief.
Each issue is addressed in turn.
      A. Final Agency Action
    EPA argues that the Court lacks jurisdiction because
Program Plan 15 is not reviewable under the APA. 6 The
APA provides that “[a]gency action made reviewable by
statute and final agency action for which there is no other
adequate remedy in a court are subject to judicial review.” 5
U.S.C. § 704. EPA argues that Program Plan 15 did not
constitute “agency action” at all, let alone “final agency
action,” and accordingly the petition should be dismissed.
As explained below, neither argument has merit.
      The APA defines “agency action” as “the whole or a part
of an agency rule, order, license, sanction, relief, or the
equivalent or denial thereof, or failure to act.” 5 U.S.C.
§ 551(13) (emphasis added). The APA defines “‘[r]ule’
. . . broadly to include ‘statement[s] of general or particular
applicability and future effect’ that are designed to
‘implement, interpret, or prescribe law or policy.’” Perez v.
Mortg. Bankers Ass’n, 575 U.S. 92, 95–96 (2015) (quoting

6
  EPA frames its argument as a jurisdictional challenge. Although some
Ninth Circuit decisions have suggested the APA’s prerequisites to
judicial review are jurisdictional, see, e.g., Cabaccang v. U.S.
Citizenship & Immigr. Servs., 627 F.3d 1313, 1315 (9th Cir. 2010), the
Supreme Court has explained that “[t]he judicial review provisions of the
APA are not jurisdictional,” Air Courier Conference v. Am. Postal
Workers Union, 498 U.S. 517, 523 n.3 (1991). We need not reach this
potential tension because we conclude EPA has engaged in final agency
action.
18             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


5 U.S.C. § 551(4)). This definition of “rule” includes not
only binding rules that have the force of law, but also
“[i]nterpretative rules, general statements of policy, or rules
of agency organization, procedure, or practice.” Id. at 96
(quoting 5 U.S.C. § 553(b)(A)).
    Program Plan 15 plainly reflects a statement of the
agency’s position with respect to the revision of the various
ELGs. It therefore constitutes a “rule,” whether or not it has
any binding force. See Ctr. for Biological Diversity v.
Haaland, 58 F.4th 412, 416 (9th Cir. 2023) (noting that a
“rule” is defined broadly and may include non-binding
plans). Similarly, Program Plan 15 expressly declined to
revise the various ELGs that Petitioners challenge, and so in
that sense constitutes a “failure to act.” 5 U.S.C. § 551(13).
Whether or not Program Plan 15 constitutes a final agency
action, for the reasons discussed below, it is certainly an
agency action within the meaning of APA Section 551(13).
    The Supreme Court has set forth a two-part test for
determining whether agency action is “final.” “First, the
action must mark the consummation of the agency’s
decisionmaking process,” and “must not be of a merely
tentative or interlocutory nature.” Bennett v. Spear, 520 U.S.
154, 177–78 (1997) (internal quotation marks omitted).
Second, “the action must be one by which rights or
obligations have been determined, or from which legal
consequences will flow.” Id. at 178 (internal quotation marks
omitted).
    “In determining whether an agency’s action is final, we
look to whether the action amounts to a definitive statement
of the agency’s position or has a direct and immediate effect
on the day-to-day operations of the subject party, or if
immediate compliance with the terms is expected.” Or. Nat.
               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                 19


Desert Ass’n v. U.S. Forest Serv., 465 F.3d 977, 982 (9th
Cir. 2006) (cleaned up). “This requires ‘focus on the
practical and legal effects of the agency action,’ not on
labels, and finality is ‘interpreted in a pragmatic and flexible
manner.’” Haaland, 58 F.4th at 417 (quoting Or. Nat. Desert
Ass’n., 465 F.3d at 982).
    EPA argues the first requirement for finality is not
satisfied because “EPA’s annual ELG reviews mark not the
end—but the beginning—of a decisionmaking process,” and
any decision will constantly be revisited in the next review.
This argument clearly fails. CWA Section 304(m) requires
that EPA conduct biennial reviews through the notice and
comment process. See 33 U.S.C. § 1314(m). Program Plan
15 marked the culmination of this biennial cycle. Therefore,
for this review cycle there can be no dispute that Program
Plan 15 “mark[ed] the ‘consummation’ of the agency’s
decisionmaking process.” Bennett, 520 U.S. at 177.
Similarly, in addition to the CWA Section 304(m) planning
process, EPA is also required to review the various ELGs on
a periodic basis and revise them if appropriate. See 33 U.S.C.
§§ 1311(d), 1314(b), (g), 1316(b)(1)(B), 1317(b)(2), (c).
EPA stated that it satisfied these periodic review obligations
through Program Plan 15 and so as to each of these review
cycles EPA’s action is final. See 3-ER-602, Program Plan 15
at 2-3.
    The fact that EPA will have to conduct similar periodic
reviews in the future does not change the conclusion that, as
to this review cycle, EPA’s decisions are final. See, e.g., U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers v. Hawkes Co., 578 U.S. 590, 598
(2016) (explaining that the fact the agency “may revise” its
determination “based on ‘new information’” “is a common
characteristic of agency action, and does not make an
otherwise definitive decision nonfinal”); San Francisco
20             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


Herring Ass’n v. Dep’t of the Interior, 946 F.3d 564, 579
(9th Cir. 2019) (“[T]he fishermen here had ‘no entitlement
to further agency review,’ and ‘[t]he mere possibility that
[the] agency might reconsider . . . does not suffice to make
an otherwise final agency action nonfinal.’” (quoting Sackett
v. EPA, 566 U.S. 120, 127 (2012)). Were it otherwise, an
agency could argue that any periodic obligation is not final,
and hence not reviewable, simply by pointing to the fact that
the agency will need to do something similar again in the
future. Such a result cannot be correct.
    The second Bennett prong, is similarly satisfied. In
arguing that it is not, EPA relies heavily on this Court’s
decision in Center for Biological Diversity v. Haaland, 58
F.4th 412 (9th Cir. 2023). In that case, the petitioners had
filed a petition for rulemaking, demanding that the Fish and
Wildlife Service update its Grizzly Bear Recovery Plan. Id.
at 415–16. We held that petitioners could not challenge the
Fish and Wildlife Service’s refusal to do so, because it was
not a final agency action. Id. at 417–20. We explained that,
“although the Service had the statutory obligation to draw up
a roadmap for recovery of the grizzly bear,” the plans created
pursuant to that obligation were not enforceable against any
private party or binding on the agency. Id. at 418.
Accordingly, we held that the second Bennett prong was not
satisfied by the decision not to revise the recovery plan
because no legal consequences flowed from that decision.
See id.
    The portions of CWA Section 304(m) that are relevant
here, standing alone, might not demand any agency action
from which legal consequences flow. Section 304(m)(1)(A)
requires that EPA create a “plan” that “shall . . . establish a
schedule for the annual review and revision of promulgated
effluent guidelines, in accordance with subsection (b) of this
                 WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                      21


section.” 33 U.S.C. § 1314(m)(1)(A). There is no indication
in the statute that this “plan” has any binding effect, either
on private parties or EPA itself. 7 In this sense, it is no
different than the plan at issue in Haaland. But Program Plan
15 did more than simply set forth a schedule for the review
and revision of ELGs. In Program Plan 15, EPA also carried
out its related obligations to review existing ELGs and
concluded that it would not revise the ELGs for the Seven
Industrial Categories. See 3-ER-602, Program Plan 15 at 2-
3. The decision not to revise particular ELGs in connection
with EPA’s distinct review-and-revise obligations
constitutes final agency action because it meant that the
existing standards, which limit the discharge of pollutants
and with which industry must comply, will remain in place
unchanged.
    In general, an agency’s decision not to act in the face of
a purported obligation to do so can constitute final agency
action, satisfying Bennett’s second prong, even if the agency
action does not alter the status quo. See Or. Nat. Desert
Ass’n, 465 F.3d at 986–87 (explaining that a final action
“need not alter the legal regime to which the involved federal
agency is subject”). In line with this rule, courts have
consistently held that “[a]n agency’s denial of a petition for
rulemaking constitutes final, reviewable agency action,
except where there is evidence of a clear and convincing
legislative intent to negate review.” Weight Watchers Int’l,


7
  Petitioners cite our decision in NRDC v. EPA, 542 F.3d 1235 (9th Cir.
2008), to support their contention that CWA Section 304(m) creates
mandatory obligations. However, that case concerned other portions of
CWA Section 304(m) that are not at issue here. See id. at 1250–52
(considering requirements for new source categories and not existing
ELGs).
22             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


Inc. v. FTC, 47 F.3d 990, 992 (9th Cir. 1995) (citation
omitted).
    Here, EPA was obligated, by statute, to review existing
ELGs and make a determination as to whether they should
be revised. See Our Children’s Earth Found. v. EPA, 527
F.3d 842, 849 (9th Cir. 2008). Had EPA decided to revise
the ELGs for the Seven Industrial Categories, there can be
no doubt that decision would be final and reviewable. The
decision declining to revise, particularly in the face of public
comments requesting modification, is therefore a decision
“by which rights or obligations have been determined, or
from which legal consequences will flow,” because it meant
that regulated industries can continue to emit pollutants at
the same current levels. Bennett, 520 U.S. at 178.
    Haaland is entirely consistent with, and in fact supports,
this conclusion. In that case, the dissent argued that the
denial of a petition for rulemaking is always reviewable,
even if the rule at issue is not binding. See Haaland, 58 F.4th
at 425–29 (Sung, J., dissenting). The majority disagreed with
this broad rule and instead adopted the narrower position that
“we evaluate the [agency’s] denial of the petition to amend
the Plan under the same test applicable to a ‘direct’ challenge
to the Plan.” Id. at 419. The majority in Haaland
distinguished the cases cited by the plaintiff and the dissent
on the ground that, in those cases the “regulation, if adopted,
would have clearly changed the legal rights and obligations”
of the parties. Id. at 419–20 (emphasis added). Thus, the
relevant inquiry for purposes of a decision not to engage in
rulemaking, is whether the requested action would have had
legal consequences.
   At bottom, the problem with EPA’s position is that the
decision declining to revise the ELGs for the Seven
               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                  23


Industrial Categories is no different than the denial of a
petition for rulemaking. EPA concedes that the denial of a
petition for rulemaking, seeking the exact same relief sought
by Petitioners here, would be final and judicially reviewable.
EPA’s decision not to revise these ELGs in the face of a clear
statutory directive to review is no less final than EPA’s
denial of a petition for rulemaking. In both cases EPA is
required to decide whether to initiate a rulemaking, in both
cases the decision not to do so does not affirmatively alter
any parties’ legal obligations, instead leaving the current
standards in place, and in both cases EPA could reconsider
its decision in the future.
      B. Original Jurisdiction Under CWA Section
         509(b)(1)
    Intervenors argue we lack jurisdiction for an independent
reason. “The CWA contains two separate jurisdictional
sections: § 505(a), known as the citizen suit provision, and
§ 509(b)(1), which relates primarily to challenges to
promulgation of certain standards and determinations.” Our
Children’s Earth, 527 F.3d at 846. Section 505(a)(2), which
is only indirectly relevant to this case, grants district court’s
jurisdiction over actions “where there is alleged a failure of
the Administrator to perform any act or duty under this
chapter which is not discretionary with the Administrator.”
33 U.S.C. § 1365(a)(2).
    Petitioners brought this action under CWA Section
509(b)(1) (33 U.S.C. § 1369(b)(1)), which authorizes
original jurisdiction in the courts of appeal to hear challenges
to the following actions of EPA, among others:
“in promulgating any standard of performance under section
1316,” “in promulgating any effluent standard, prohibition,
or pretreatment standard under section 1317,” and “in
24             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


approving or promulgating any effluent limitation or other
limitation under section 1311, 1312, 1316, or 1345.” 33
U.S.C. § 1369(b)(1)(A)(C)(E). The jurisdiction granted by
Section 509(b)(1) is exclusive to courts of appeals. See Our
Children’s Earth, 527 F.3d at 847.
    Intervenors, but not EPA, argue that the actions
Petitioners challenge do not constitute “promulgating” or
“approving” any standards or limitations within the meaning
of CWA Section 509(b)(1), and accordingly we lack
jurisdiction. Significantly, EPA concedes that we have
jurisdiction under Section 509(b)(1) if Program Plan 15 is
reviewable as a final agency action. Specifically, EPA
confirmed that it did not agree with Intervener’s
jurisdictional argument and rather, stated that it was “aligned
with Petitioners on Section 509(b) jurisdiction” during oral
argument.        Oral     Arg.       Video        24:55–25:25,
https://www.ca9.uscourts.gov/media/video/?20241205/23-
636/.
     Intervenors rely principally on our decision in Our
Children’s Earth Foundation v. EPA. That case concerned
an appeal from a suit brought under CWA Section 505 in the
district court, alleging EPA had violated a nondiscretionary
duty to consider the best available technology in reviewing
previously promulgated ELGs pursuant to CWA Sections
301(d) and 304(b), (m) (some of the same review obligations
at issue in this case). See Our Children’s Earth, 527 F.3d at
846–49. The Dissent and Interveners maintain that
Petitioners’ challenge is essentially a challenge to EPA’s
review process like in Our Children’s Earth and is not a
challenge to the substance of the ELGs at issue. Dissent at
72–74.
                 WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                        25


    We disagree. This Court has jurisdiction to review
EPA’s decision not to revise the ELGs for the Seven
Industrial Categories for two reasons. First, our jurisdiction
extends “to a substantive review of the appropriateness of
the guidelines actually promulgated.” Our Children’s Earth,
527 F.3d at 847. Here, Petitioners’ challenge concerns the
substantive adequacy of previously promulgated ELGs.
Petitioners argue that the ELGs for the Seven Industrial
Categories are out of date and substantially less strict than
they should be. As EPA stated during argument, if EPA’s
action was a reviewable final agency action, then
Petitioner’s challenge is a “challenge to the existing ELG[s]
and that’s what 509(b) allows for.” Oral Arg. Video 25:32–
25:51. Unlike in Our Children’s Earth, Petitioners do not
argue that EPA has a non-discretionary duty to consider
technology or other factors when reviewing ELGs.8 Rather,
they argue that in exercising its discretion not to revise ELGs
for the Seven Industrial Categories, EPA acted in a manner
that was arbitrary and capricious by not considering
important factors or otherwise providing a reasoned
explanation for ignoring those factors. 9 This is not a

8
  To the extent Petitioners argue that EPA has a non-discretionary duty
to consider certain factors in reviewing ELGs, Our Children’s Earth
Foundation forecloses that argument. See 527 F.3d at 844 (holding CWA
does not impose a “mandatory duty” to consider technology-based
factors in reviewing ELGs).
9
 The Dissent asserts that our focus on the Category Ranking Analysis,
and the deficiencies thereof, somehow proves that Petitioners’ claims do
not relate to the substance of previously promulgated ELGs. See Dissent
at 68–72, 78–80. However, we do not opine, in greater detail, on the
substance of particular ELGs for the straightforward reason that EPA did
not do so. Under the APA, our review is limited to evaluating the reasons
proffered by the agency. See Humane Soc. of U.S. v. Locke, 626 F.3d
26               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


challenge to any nondiscretionary duty EPA has. Second, by
reviewing and declining to revise the ELGs in Program Plan
15, EPA plainly “approv[ed]” them within the meaning of
Section 509(b)(1)(E).
     The Tenth Circuit’s decision in Maier v. EPA, 114 F.3d
1032 (10th Cir. 1997), is on point. In that case, EPA denied
a petition for rulemaking that alleged certain CWA
regulations were outdated and needed to be revised in light
of changes in technology. See id. at 1035–36. The petitioners
then brought suit under Section 509(b)(1) to challenge that
denial. See id. The Tenth Circuit had “no difficulty
construing this as a challenge to an ‘action in approving or
promulgating’ under” Section 509(b)(1). Id. at 1038. The
Tenth Circuit explained that, “[w]here petitioners’ challenge
is to the substance of a regulation that the agency has already
promulgated, exclusive jurisdiction in the court of appeals
may not be evaded merely by styling the claim as one for
failure to revise.” Id. This “rule ensures that an appellate
court will review the Administrator’s decision whether the
ultimate challenge is to a failure to revise or to a decision to
revise.” Id.; cf. Crown Simpson Pulp Co. v. Costle, 445 U.S.
193, 197 (1980) (rejecting construction of Section
509(b)(1)(F) that would “creat[e] . . . a seemingly irrational
bifurcated system” of review “at different levels of the

1040, 1048 (9th Cir. 2010) (“The reviewing court should not attempt
itself to make up for [an agency’s] deficiencies: We may not supply a
reasoned basis for the agency’s action that the agency itself has not
given.” (citation omitted)). EPA declined to revise the ELGs for six of
the Seven Industrial Categories by relying exclusively upon the Category
Ranking Analysis. See 3-ER-450, Preliminary Plan 15, at 5-1; 3-ER-
614–18, Program Plan 15, at 5-1 to 5-5. Insofar as the Category Ranking
Analysis was deficient, so too were EPA’s decisions based upon that
Analysis about the substance of the ELGs.
                 WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                         27


federal-court system depending on the fortuitous
circumstance of whether the State in which the case arose
was or was not authorized to issue permits”).
    The rule announced in Maier, that challenges to the
substance of existing ELGs must be brought in the courts of
appeals, is consistent with our precedent. 10 As noted, Our
Children’s Earth held that “the circuit court’s exclusive
jurisdiction extends only to a substantive review of the
appropriateness of the guidelines actually promulgated.” 527
F.3d at 847. Similarly, in NRDC v. EPA, plaintiffs brought
suit in district court alleging EPA had a nondiscretionary
duty to promulgate ELGs for an industry that lacked any
ELGs. 542 F.3d 1235, 1239–41 (9th Cir. 2008). In finding
the district court had jurisdiction to hear this claim, we
explained that Section 509(b)(1)(E) is inapplicable to suits
that “d[o] not challenge the substance of any existing
regulations,” because in such circumstances “[p]laintiffs
d[id] not seek a review of the existing regulations that the
[EPA] is alleged to have ‘approved.’” Id. at 1243. The
NRDC court discussed Maier with approval but
distinguished the case on the ground that the petitioners in
Maier were “requesting a review of existing regulations,”
which was different from the claim that “EPA had failed to


10
   Maier is also consistent with the other cases cited by Intervenors. See
Com. of Pa., Dep’t of Env’t Res. v. EPA, 618 F.2d 991, 995–96 (3d Cir.
1980) (suggesting that suits alleging the “inadequacy of a set of
regulations” that already exist fall under Section 509, whereas suits
alleging “that a needed regulation was nonexistent” fall under Section
505); Environmental Defense Fund v. EPA, 598 F.2d 63, 90–91 (D.C.
Cir. 1978) (concluding claim “that EPA should have engaged in an
additional rulemaking proceeding” concerning matter about which EPA
had not promulgated a rule belonged in district court).
28                WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


issue the disputed regulations at all.” Id. at 1243–44 (quoting
Maier, 114 F.3d at 1039).
     The Dissent and Intervenors distinguish Maier because
it involved the denial of a petition for rulemaking, Dissent at
75–80, but this is a distinction without a difference. 11 For
purposes of Section 509(b)(1), EPA’s decision refusing to
revise existing ELGs in carrying out its statutorily required
periodic reviews is no different than the denial of a petition
for rulemaking because in both instances EPA must review
the substance of existing ELGs and decide whether to revise
them.12




11
  The Dissent misleadingly suggests that “EPA believes Maier is ‘very
distinct’ from this case because the petitioner in Maier, unlike Petitioners
here, did file a petition for rulemaking.” Dissent at 77 n.8. EPA made
this statement in discussing the final agency action requirement, which
the Dissent does not dispute is satisfied. With respect to CWA Section
509(b)(1), EPA agrees that we have jurisdiction over this case and that
Maier’s reasoning is directly applicable here. See Oral Arg. Video
24:55–27:53.
12
  The Dissent asserts that “EPA did not decline to revise the ELGs for
the Seven Industrial Categories,” but instead chose to “not prioriti[ze]”
them “for further study or rulemaking at this time.” Dissent at 69. But
the plain language of the review obligations requires EPA to review each
ELG and make a decision whether revision is appropriate, which is a
decision that necessarily relates to the substance of the ELG. See infra
Section III.A. If the Dissent is correct that EPA failed to adequately
discuss the substance of the ELGs as part of its periodic review, that
simply suggests that EPA acted in a manner that was “arbitrary,
capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with
law.” 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A). It does not change the fact that these claims
fall within CWA Section 509(b)(1).
               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                29


    Accordingly, consistent with the plain text of the statute,
as well as prior precedent construing it, we have jurisdiction
over Petitioners’ claim.
     C. Administrative Waiver
     EPA argues that Petitioners have waived their challenge
to its decision not to revise the ELGs for four of the Seven
Industrial Categories—“Inorganic Chemical Manufacturing,
OCPSF (aside from the PFAS contaminants that the Agency
is already addressing), Pesticide Chemical Manufacturing,
[and] Nonferrous Metals Manufacturing”—because neither
Petitioners nor anyone else submitted a comment on
Preliminary Plan 15 asking EPA to revise these ELGs. EPA
concedes that Petitioners challenge to the ELGs for the
remaining three of the Seven Industrial Categories—Plastics
Molding and Forming, Petroleum Refining, and Fertilizer
Manufacturing—was properly preserved.
    “As a general rule, [appellate courts] will not review
challenges to agency action raised for the first time on
appeal.” Portland Gen. Elec. Co. v. Bonneville Power
Admin., 501 F.3d 1009, 1023 (9th Cir. 2007). This waiver
rule “protects the agency’s prerogative to apply its expertise,
to correct its own errors, and to create a record for our
review.” Id. at 1024. The waiver rule generally does not
apply “if an agency has had an opportunity to consider the
issue.” Id. We may also “consider any issue that was raised
with sufficient clarity to allow the decision maker to
understand and rule on the issue raised, whether the issue
was considered sua sponte by the agency or was raised by
someone other than the petitioning party.” Pac. Choice
Seafood Co. v. Ross, 976 F.3d 932, 942 (9th Cir. 2020)
(citation and internal quotation marks omitted).
30             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


     EPA is correct that Petitioners did not explicitly single
out four of the seven ELGs that Petitioners now seek to
challenge. Petitioners misleadingly suggest that they
identified these four ELGs in their comment. But the table
they cite included a list of every ELG that exists, sorted by
age, and so could hardly have placed EPA on notice about
Petitioners’ complaints about these four ELGs specifically.
See 2-ER-0502–10, EIP Annual Review Comment, at i–vii.
Citing a 2019 rulemaking petition, Petitioners similarly
claim that their challenge to the OCPSF ELG was presented
to the agency. However, EPA explicitly acknowledged this
petition for rulemaking in Program Plan 15 and indicated
that EPA was still “carefully reviewing” it. 3-ER-613,
Program Plan 15, at 4-2. This petition was sent to EPA in
2019, well before the commencement of the Preliminary
Plan 15 notice-and-comment process. And because EPA is
still considering the issues raised in that petition, it is not a
final agency action and cannot form the basis of this suit.
    Nonetheless, Petitioners’ more general complaints about
the ELG review process were sufficient to preserve the
arguments they now raise. On appeal, Petitioners argue, inter
alia, that the Category Ranking Analysis failed to properly
account for changes in control technology, relied on data
from discharge monitoring reports (“DMR data”) that was
faulty, did not adequately consider pollution from indirect
dischargers, and did not adequately account for pollutants
not currently subject to ELGs. These issues were adequately
presented to and considered by the agency. See, e.g., 2-ER-
0501–02, EIP Annual Review Comment, at 2–3 (noting
“EPA’s review process is fundamentally flawed”); 3-ER-
549, Earth Justice Fertilizer Comment, at 8. Petitioners
similarly raised issues with Preliminary Plan 15’s decision
to rely on DMR data, albeit in connection with specific
              WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA               31


source categories. See 2-ER-536–59, Food and Water Watch
Comment, at 2–5; 3-ER-554–558 Earth Justice Fertilizer
Comment, at 13–17.
    In its comment responses in Program Plan 15, EPA
included sections concerning criticism of its ELG review
process, the age of its regulations, and the way in which the
agency accounts for technology, the subjects of the instant
appeal. See 3-ER-995–1004, Program Plan 15 Comment
Responses, at 252–263. EPA similarly identified the lack of
DMR data about unregulated pollutants and about indirect
dischargers as “limitations” of the Category Ranking
Analysis, making clear it was aware of those issues. 3-ER-
669, Load Ranking Analysis, at 2; 2-ER-484, Concentration
Ranking Analysis, at 2.
    What is more, the issues Petitioners raise on appeal are
not new to EPA. For example, in 2012, the Government
Accountability Office (“GAO”) issued a report criticizing
EPA for its periodic review process and identifying many of
the issues Petitioners now raise. See 2-ER-320–21, GAO,
Water Pollution: EPA Has Improved Its Review of Effluent
Guidelines but Could Benefit from More Information on
Treatment Technologies (“GAO Report”), at 40–41.
    In sum, EPA was aware of, and had a chance to address,
the issues Petitioners now raise on appeal. Indeed, as to the
Plastics Molding and Forming, Petroleum Refining, and
Fertilizer Manufacturing categories, EPA does not dispute
that the same specific attacks on EPA’s method were
properly preserved. Because those attacks apply with equal
force to the decision regarding each of the Seven Industrial
Categories, insofar as those decisions relied on the same
32                WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


Category Ranking Analysis, we find Petitioners’ challenge
was adequately preserved.13
       D. Waiver Regarding New Source Performance
          Standards
    Petitioners nominally challenge EPA’s decision not to
revise new source performance standards in their petition for
review. However, they make no arguments as to them,
instead focusing exclusively on effluent limitations, effluent
guidelines, pretreatment standards, and pretreatment
guidelines.14 Petitioners offer additional discussion of new
source performance standards in their reply brief, but even
these arguments are not well developed.
  We will generally not consider issues not raised in a
party’s opening brief or arguments that are not meaningfully
developed. See Hui Ran Mu v. Barr, 936 F.3d 929, 936 (9th
Cir. 2019) (“[I]ssues not raised in the opening brief are
deemed waived.”); United States v. Graf, 610 F.3d 1148,
1166 (9th Cir. 2010) (“Arguments made in passing and not
supported by citations to the record or to case authority are
generally deemed waived.”). Application of this rule is
particularly appropriate where, as here, the unraised issue of
how to treat new source performance standards is complex

13
  Petitioners argue the waiver rule is totally inapplicable and cite a line
of Fifth Circuit decisions that we have specifically declined to follow in
Universal Health Servs., Inc. v. Thompson, 363 F.3d 1013, 1020 n.3 (9th
Cir. 2004).
14
   Petitioners repeatedly refer to EPA’s decisions regarding “ELGs”
which Petitioners define to include only effluent limitations and effluent
guidelines. This departs from EPA’s nomenclature in its internal
documents and brief, which defines ELGs as also including pretreatment
standards, pretreatment guidelines, new source performance standards
and pretreatment guidelines for new sources.
                  WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                        33


and important. The parties apparently assume that new
source performance standards should be treated in a similar
manner as other ELGs discussed at length by the parties. But
an entirely different set of statutory provisions, that the
parties have not meaningfully discussed, govern the
promulgation and review of new source performance
standards. Compare 33 U.S.C. §§ 1311(d) and 1314(b), with
33 U.S.C. § 1316(b)(1)(B). See 3-ER-600–03, Program Plan
15, at 2-1 to 2-4 (summarizing statutory obligations).
Accordingly, we hold that Petitioners have waived any
challenge to EPA’s decisions regarding new source
performance standards.15
III. DISCUSSION
    Turning to the merits, Petitioners argue it was arbitrary
and capricious for EPA to rely on its Category Ranking
Analysis to decline to revise the ELGs for the Seven
Industrial Categories for four reasons. First, EPA was
required to consider advances in technology in reviewing
these ELGs but failed to do so. Second, the Category
Ranking Analysis failed to properly consider pretreatment
standards and guidelines applicable to indirect dischargers.
Third, EPA impermissibly ignored information that these
ELGs do not address all pollutants discharged by the
relevant source category. Fourth, data EPA relied upon
incorrectly classified many facilities into the wrong source



15
   Neither the petition nor Petitioners’ opening brief make any explicit
reference to pretreatment standards for new sources beyond a handful of
citations to the relevant statutory provision, 33 U.S.C. § 1317(c). To the
extent Petitioners seek to challenge pretreatment standards for new
sources, such a challenge has been similarly waived.
34             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


category, and so the analysis lacked a substantial basis in
fact.
    A court may set aside an agency action if it was
“arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise
not in accordance with law.” 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A). In
general, to comply with this standard the agency must
“examine the relevant data and articulate a satisfactory
explanation for its action including a rational connection
between the facts found and the choice made.” Motor
Vehicle Mfrs. Ass’n of U.S., Inc. v. State Farm Mut. Auto.
Ins. Co., 463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983) (internal quotation marks
omitted). The agency may not “rel[y] on factors which
Congress has not intended it to consider, entirely fail[] to
consider an important aspect of the problem, offer[] an
explanation for its decision that runs counter to the evidence
before the agency, or is so implausible that it could not be
ascribed to a difference in view or the product of agency
expertise.” Id. EPA’s decision must also have a “substantial
basis in fact.” Ctr. for Biological Diversity v. Zinke, 900 F.3d
1053, 1067 (9th Cir. 2018) (citation omitted).
    “Judicial review under [the arbitrary and capricious]
standard is deferential, and a court may not substitute its own
policy judgment for that of the agency.” Fed. Commc’ns
Comm’n v. Prometheus Radio Project, 592 U.S. 414, 423
(2021). The standard is particularly deferential when it is
applied to an agency’s decision not to engage in rulemaking.
See Massachusetts v. EPA, 549 U.S. 497, 527–28 (2007).
Nonetheless, “[i]n denying a petition for rulemaking, an
agency must, at a minimum, clearly indicate that it has
considered the potential problem identified in the petition
and provide a ‘reasonable explanation as to why it cannot or
will not exercise its discretion’ to initiate rulemaking.”
                 WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                      35


Compassion Over Killing v. FDA, 849 F.3d 849, 857 (9th
Cir. 2017) (quoting Massachusetts, 549 U.S. at 533).
    As explained in more detail below, EPA was not
required, as part of its periodic review, to revise an ELG
simply because it was out of date or not comprehensive.
Rather, it was within EPA’s discretion to prioritize the
revision of certain ELGs over others by using a hazard-based
approach that seeks to identify where revision will do the
most good. Notwithstanding this, EPA’s Category Ranking
Analysis gave too short shrift to the first three issues
identified by Petitioners. Accordingly, we remand for EPA
to further consider these issues.
      A. EPA’s Periodic Review Obligations
    Before addressing the particular deficiencies that
allegedly affected Program Plan 15’s review, we begin by
resolving certain general disagreements the parties present
about the scope of EPA’s periodic review obligations. See
supra Section I.A (setting forth relevant statutory
provisions).
    First, EPA must carry out its periodic reviews of each
ELG within the specified timeframe. See 33 U.S.C.
§ 1311(d) (requiring review “at least every five years”), id.
§ 1314(b), (g) (requiring review “at least annually”).
Further, the CWA unambiguously requires EPA to review
each ELG for each source category.16 We thus reject EPA’s

16
  See 33 U.S.C. § 1311(d) (requiring review of “any effluent limitation
required by paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of this section”); id.
§ 1314(b) (requiring promulgation of “guidelines for effluent
limitations” and annual review of “such regulations” thereafter); id.
§ 1314(g) (requiring “review at least annually thereafter and, if
36                WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


argument that it was not required to make a determination
whether to revise any given ELG. Although, as explained
below, EPA has a measure of discretion in how it carries out
its review, the necessity for EPA to review every ELG to
decide whether revision is appropriate is plain from the face
of the statute.
    Second, EPA has some discretion to select the manner
and method of its review. EPA must review effluent
limitations, effluent guidelines and pretreatment guidelines
on either an annual or five-yearly basis and revise them “if
appropriate.” 33 U.S.C. §§ 1311(d), 1314(b), (g). The terms
“appropriate” in connection with certain of EPA’s review
obligations certainly suggests EPA has some discretion in
how it carries out its reviews. See Our Children’s Earth, 527
F.3d at 850–51. EPA must also revise pretreatment standards
“from time to time, as control technology, processes,
operating methods, or other alternatives change.” 33 U.S.C.
§ 1317(b)(2). The use of the phrase “from time to time,”
suggests that EPA has discretion about when to revise such
standards.
    But EPA’s discretion is not unlimited. In reviewing
EPA’s exercise of its discretion, the court must “fix[] the
boundaries of [the] delegated authority, and ensur[e] the
agency has engaged in reasoned decisionmaking within
those boundaries.” Loper Bright Enters. v. Raimondo, 603
U.S. 369, 395 (2024) (internal quotation marks omitted).
“‘[A]ppropriate’ is the classic broad and all-encompassing
term that naturally and traditionally includes consideration

appropriate, revis[ion of] guidelines for pretreatment of pollutants”); id.
§ 1317(b)(1) (requiring EPA to periodically “revise [pretreatment]
standards following the procedure established by this subsection for
promulgation of such standards”).
               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA               37


of all the relevant factors.” Michigan v. EPA, 576 U.S. 743,
752 (2015). What is meant by “appropriate” is
“quintessentially ‘context dependent’ . . . [and] often draws
its meaning from surrounding statutory provisions.”
Harrington v. Purdue Pharma L.P., 603 U.S. 204, 218
(2024) (citation omitted). Thus, “[a]lthough this term leaves
agencies with flexibility, an agency may not ‘entirely fai[l]
to consider an important aspect of the problem’ when
deciding whether regulation is appropriate.” Michigan, 576
U.S. at 752 (quoting State Farm, 463 U.S. at 43).
    Considering the surrounding statutory provisions,
whether it is “appropriate” to “revise” an ELG must turn, at
least to an extent, on the degree to which that ELG fails to
conform to the substantive requirements of that ELG set
forth in the CWA. The substantive provisions concerning
each ELG describe what the proper content of each ELG
should be. For example, having effluent limitations that
comport with the Act’s substantive requirements is
described as a result that “shall be achieved” “[i]n order to
carry out the objective of” the CWA, 33 U.S.C.
§§ 1311(b)(1)(A), 1311(b)(2)(A), and the Act states that the
effluent guideline “regulations shall” “identify” or “specify”
particular contents, without any temporal limitation, id. §
1314(b)(2)(A)-(B). Indeed, should EPA actually choose to
revise any given ELG, the same factors guiding their initial
promulgation will again need to be taken into account. See
Our Children’s Earth, 527 F.3d at 851 (The CWA is
“unambiguous that revision decisions . . . are constrained by
the statute’s mandates for what ‘such regulations’ ‘shall’
accomplish.”).
    The substantive requirements of the CWA thus are
relevant considerations on both a practical and theoretical
level. On a practical level, the extent to which any given
38             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


ELG deviates from what is mandated by the statute
necessarily defines the benefits to be obtained from any
potential revision. On a theoretical level, the substantive
requirements concerning each ELG define the ultimate
objective EPA must strive towards. The goal is to have ELGs
that conform to those substantive requirements, and to the
extent an ELG does not conform with those requirements
revision would presumptively be appropriate. This Court has
gone so far as to suggest EPA will be “required to justify its
regulations” in light of subsequently developed data during
its periodic reviews. Ass’n of Pac. Fisheries v. EPA, 615
F.2d 794, 812 (9th Cir. 1980). Thus, one of the objectives of
EPA’s periodic review must be to identify outdated ELGs
(i.e. ELGs that deviate from the CWA’s substantive
commands).
     Third, although EPA must carry out these periodic
reviews with an eye towards identifying outdated ELGs,
EPA is not required to revise each and every ELG that is out
of date. As this Court explained in Our Children’s Earth, the
decision whether to initiate a rulemaking to revise any given
ELG is “discretionary[,] as indicated by the ‘if appropriate’
language.” 527 F.3d at 850–51. In particular, EPA has
determined that it lacks the resources to revise every ELG.
This is, at least as a general matter, a permissible basis to
decline to initiate a rulemaking and EPA has broad
discretion in this regard. See Massachusetts, 549 U.S. at 527
(EPA “has broad discretion to choose how best to marshal
its limited resources and personnel to carry out its delegated
responsibilities.”). We therefore reject Petitioners’ apparent
assumption throughout their briefs that EPA acted in a
manner that was arbitrary and capricious simply because
EPA had evidence certain ELGs are out of date but declined
to act.
               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA               39


    We caution again, however, that EPA’s discretion is not
unlimited. “The fact that an agency has broad discretion in
choosing whether to act does not establish that the agency
may justify its choice on specious grounds.” Jajati v. United
States Customs & Border Prot., 102 F.4th 1011, 1017 (9th
Cir. 2024) (citation omitted). And “prioritizing pressing
matters does not mean agencies have license to ignore the
law.” Ctr. for Food Safety v. Regan, 56 F.4th 648, 658 (9th
Cir. 2022). Therefore, EPA must exercise its discretion
declining to initiate a rulemaking in a manner that is
consistent with both the CWA and APA.
    Finally, we disagree with Petitioners that EPA is
categorically prohibited from employing a so-called
“hazard-based approach” in carrying out its periodic review
obligations. EPA has determined that it lacks the resources
to revise each and every ELG that is out of date. Thus, EPA’s
Category Ranking Analysis—the first step of its review
process—compared the amount of pollution contributed by
each source category in an attempt to “prioritize[] the
revision of ELGs where they can produce the most
significant benefits.” This method of prioritization, at least
in the abstract, is reasonable and consistent with the stated
goal of the CWA to “restore and maintain the chemical,
physical, and biological integrity of the Nation’s waters.” 33
U.S.C. § 1251(a). We thus disagree with Petitioners that
EPA relied on “irrelevant factors that Congress did not
intend EPA to prioritize.”
              *       *       *       *      *
    To summarize, EPA is required to carry out its periodic
reviews on the timeframes set forth in the CWA and must do
so with respect to each ELG. The focus of EPA’s review
must be to identify whether each ELG is outdated, in the
40             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


sense that it does not conform with the Act’s substantive
requirements for that ELG. EPA is not required, however, to
revise an ELG simply because it is out of date, but EPA must
nonetheless offer a reasoned justification for declining to do
so that is consistent with the APA and CWA. With these
principles in mind, we turn to the particular challenges raised
by Petitioners.
     B. Developments in Pollution Control Technology
     Petitioners’ first challenge concerns how Program Plan
15’s review of ELGs accounts for changes in pollution
control technology. EPA’s Category Ranking Analysis—the
first step of its review in both Preliminary and Program Plan
15—looked solely at the amount of pollution contributed by
each of the 59 source categories and selected the most highly
ranked categories for further analysis. Categories screened
out at this first step were given no further consideration as
part of EPA’s review process and thus no change was made
to these ELGs. See 3-ER-450, Preliminary Plan 15, at 5-1;
3-ER-614–18, Program Plan 15, at 5-1 to 5-5.
    Petitioners argue it was arbitrary and capricious for EPA
to rely on the Category Ranking Analysis because it failed
to account for, or even consider, changes in pollution control
technology. Petitioners point out that the ELGs for the Seven
Industrial Categories have not been revised for 30 years or
more, even though there is evidence that pollution control
technologies have advanced substantially in that time. This
is problematic, Petitioners argue, because the CWA requires
that EPA ensure ELGs become more stringent as pollution
control technology improves. We agree with Petitioners, but
only to a point.
    Whether it is “appropriate” to “revise” an ELG must
turn, at least to an extent, on some consideration of
               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                 41


developments in pollution control technology. ELGs are
technology-based standards, meaning they are set by
reference to the level of pollution control attainable using the
technology that is available to the industry. See 3-ER-455–
56, Preliminary Plan 15, at 2-2 to 2-3 (listing the various
technology-based standards that apply in different
situations); 3-ER-598–600, Program Plan 15, at 2-1 (noting
ELGs are “national industry-specific wastewater regulations
based on the performance of demonstrated wastewater
treatment technologies”). The precise standard varies based
upon the facility and type of pollution at issue, but to take
just one example, effluent limitations for toxic and
nonconventional pollutants must be based on the “best
available technology economically achievable for such
category or class,” referred to as “BAT.” 33 U.S.C.
§ 1311(b)(2)(A); see also § 1314(b)(2)(B). In setting BAT,
EPA must consider “the age of equipment and facilities
involved, the process employed, the engineering aspects of
the application of various types of control techniques,
process changes, the cost of achieving such effluent
reduction, non-water quality environmental impact
(including energy requirements), and such other factors as
the Administrator deems appropriate.” 33 U.S.C.
§ 1314(b)(2)(B). We will refer to these as the CWA’s
“technology-based factors.” In any rulemaking to revise a
pre-existing ELG, EPA is required to employ the same
technology-based factors applicable to the initial
promulgation of an ELG. Our Children’s Earth, 527 F.3d at
850–51 (“The statute states that the regulations ‘shall’
account for the technological factors without distinguishing
between promulgation and revision.”).
   Developments in pollution control technology are
important factors for EPA to consider when carrying out its
42             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


periodic reviews. On a practical level, without at least some
consideration of technological developments, the Category
Ranking Analysis was incapable of achieving EPA’s stated
goal of “prioritiz[ing] the revision of ELGs where they can
produce the most significant benefits.” This is because the
concentration of pollution in an industry’s waste stream, or
the amount of overall pollution an industry is releasing, is
only half the story if EPA is trying to identify the benefits of
revision. Equally important in making any such assessment
is the difference between the standard set by the current ELG
and the level at which a revised ELG is likely to be set. If
that difference is comparatively modest, revision of an ELG
for a high polluting industry would nonetheless produce only
minimal benefits. By contrast, if an ELG has not been
revised in a substantial period of time and technology in that
industry has substantially improved, a revision could yield
substantial benefits, even if the industry’s overall pollution
load is comparatively modest.
    On a more fundamental level, in adopting this
technology-based approach, Congress contemplated a
system of gradually tightening technology-based limitations
that would become more stringent as pollution control
technologies improved. See Our Children’s Earth, 527 F.3d
at 851 (“[CWA] makes clear that the regulations must
comport with technological criteria that change over time.”);
Sw. Elec. Power Co. v. EPA, 920 F.3d 999, 1005 (5th Cir.
2019) (“The [CWA]. . . mandates a system in which, as
available pollution-control technology advances, pollution-
discharge limits will tighten.”); 33 U.S.C. § 1251(a)(6) (“[I]t
is the national policy that a major research and
demonstration effort be made to develop technology
necessary to eliminate the discharge of pollutants into the
navigable waters, waters of the contiguous zone, and the
              WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA               43


oceans.”). Congress chose this technology-based approach,
and then subsequently reaffirmed such an approach,
“because of the historical ineffectiveness of the previous
water-quality-based approach.” Our Children’s Earth, 527
F.3d at 848 (quoting S. Comm. on Env’t & Pub. Works, 99th
Cong., Report to Accompany S. 1128 (1985 Clean Water
Act Amendments) 3–4 (Comm. Print 1985)).
    The CWA’s periodic review obligations, at issue here,
are central to this statutory design. The periodic review
obligations are intended to implement this system of
continually tightening pollution controls by requiring EPA
“to justify its regulations” in light of subsequent
developments, including advancements in technology. Ass’n
of Pac. Fisheries, 615 F.2d at 812. The centrality of
technology to EPA’s periodic reviews is confirmed by the
pretreatment standard review obligation. With respect to
pretreatment standards (but not pretreatment guidelines)
EPA must “from time to time, as control technology,
processes, operating methods, or other alternatives change,
revise [pretreatment] standards following the procedure
established by this subsection for promulgation of such
standards.” 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b)(2). Therefore, at least with
respect to pretreatment standards, the CWA expressly
requires EPA to consider changes in technology. Petitioners
advance this argument, and yet EPA offers no response.
    When the CWA is read as a whole, we do not think this
reference to changes in control technology was intended to
establish a unique set of criteria for EPA’s review of
pretreatment standards, but instead confirms that
developments in “control technology, processes, operating
methods” are relevant considerations in EPA’s review of the
other ELGs as well. We must, wherever possible, “interpret
statutes to be coherent and internally consistent.” Silverado
44             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


Hospice, Inc. v. Becerra, 42 F.4th 1112, 1120 (9th Cir. 2022)
(cleaned up).
    Pretreatment standards are meant to ensure that indirect
dischargers—that is, point sources that discharge into
publicly owned treatment works—achieve the same levels
of pollution control as direct dischargers, taking into account
the fact that publicly owned treatment works are able to
achieve at least some level of pollution control. See Nat. Res.
Def. Council, Inc. v. EPA, 790 F.2d 289, 292 (3d Cir. 1986)
(noting CWA added requirement that indirect dischargers
“had to ‘pretreat’ its waste waters so as to achieve . . . the
same level of toxics removal as was required of a direct
discharger”). EPA accordingly sets pretreatment standards
for nonconventional and toxic pollutants using the same
factors as it uses to set effluent limitations and guidelines for
direct dischargers. See id.; 3-ER-601, Program Plan 15, at 2-
3 (“EPA considers the same factors for [pretreatment
standards for existing sources] as it does for BAT
limitations.”). Pretreatment standards and pretreatment
guidelines are similarly closely related, in that the
pretreatment guideline regulations are intended to
implement and help set pretreatment standards. In light of
this close relationship between pretreatment standards and
the other ELGs at issue, the explicit reference to
technological developments in connection with pretreatment
standards confirms what is already apparent from a holistic
reading of the statute: that developments in control
technology are an important aspect of the problem EPA must
consider in reviewing all of the relevant ELGs. Cf. Michigan,
576 U.S. at 751–54 (concluding directive to regulate if
“appropriate and necessary” required some consideration of
cost by relying on related statutory provision explicitly
requiring EPA to consider “the costs of such technologies”).
                 WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                      45


    Without      any     consideration    of    technological
developments or the technology-based factors used for
setting revised ELGs EPA simply could not have evaluated
the benefits of further review or revision. By relying solely
on the Category Ranking Analysis, EPA thus failed to
explain why it could not or did not exercise its discretion to
review any source category screened out by that Analysis.
See Compassion Over Killing, 849 F.3d at 854. Similarly, by
making its revision decisions without reference to
technological developments, notwithstanding their centrality
to the CWA’s statutory scheme, EPA entirely failed to
consider an “important aspect” of ELGs. Michigan, 576 U.S.
at 752.
     To be clear, we do not hold that EPA must conduct an
identical review with respect to every single source category
or actually apply the technology-based factors to every
source category, as EPA would in a rulemaking. To hold
otherwise would, in effect, collapse EPA’s review and
revision obligations by requiring EPA to conduct a full
rulemaking as to every source category. But EPA must
nonetheless justify its conclusion that it is not “appropriate”
to revise each ELG on grounds that are consistent with the
CWA and in a manner that is consistent with the APA. By
failing to so much as consider technological developments
in the Category Ranking Analysis, EPA failed to do so in
Program Plan 15.17



17
  Contrary to Petitioner’s argument, we cannot fault EPA for failing to
discuss zero-discharge limits in Program Plan 15 because there is no
indication in the record that zero-discharge limits would have been
feasible for any of the Seven Industrial Categories. See 33 U.S.C.
§ 1314(b)(3).
46             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


      C. Pretreatment Standards and Guidelines
    Petitioners’ second challenge concerns EPA’s review of
pretreatment standards and guidelines. The CWA draws a
distinction between direct and indirect dischargers. Direct
dischargers are point sources that emit pollutants directly
into waterways and are subject to effluent limitations and
effluent guidelines. By contrast, indirect dischargers are
point sources that emit pollutants into publicly owned
treatment works (“POTW”) and are subject to pretreatment
standards and pretreatment guidelines.
    The Category Ranking Analysis was conducted
exclusively using data from discharge monitoring reports
(“DMR data”) reported to EPA by direct dischargers. The
DMR data did not contain any information about indirect
dischargers. See 2-ER-484, Concentration Ranking
Analysis, at 2; 3-ER-669, Load Ranking Analysis, at 2.
Despite this, EPA relied on its Category Ranking Analysis
in deciding not to review further the pretreatment standards
and guidelines for categories screened out at this first step.
See 3-ER-616, Program Plan 15, at 5-3. EPA acknowledged
that both the Concentration Ranking Analysis and Load
Ranking Analysis did not evaluate data from indirect
dischargers, listing this as one of several “limitations” of the
analyses. 2-ER-484, Concentration Ranking Analysis, at 2;
3-ER-669, Load Ranking Analysis, at 2. Yet in neither
document did EPA offer an explanation as to why it could
rely on this data to make decisions about pretreatment
standards and guidelines, beyond the generic suggestion that
“[d]espite these limitations, EPA determined that the [DMR]
data are a robust and reliable source of information on
industrial wastewater discharges, particularly for this initial
screening-level review.” 2-ER-484, Concentration Ranking
Analysis, at 2; 3-ER-669, Load Ranking Analysis, at 2. For
               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA               47


the reasons set forth below, we hold that it was arbitrary and
capricious to rely solely on the Category Ranking Analysis
to make decisions about whether to revise pretreatment
standards and guidelines.
    The fact that EPA did not consider pollution from
indirect dischargers casts substantial doubt on the ability of
the Category Ranking Analysis to carry out its stated
purpose of “prioritiz[ing] revisions on the basis of where
they will do the most good.” EPA has not offered any
support for its apparent assumption that pollution data
concerning direct dischargers accurately reflects pollution
from indirect dischargers. Although the factors EPA
considers in setting pretreatment standards are similar to
those used in evaluating effluent limitations and guidelines,
they are not identical. In particular, pretreatment standards
and guidelines must address “any pollutant which interferes
with, passes through, or otherwise is incompatible with”
publicly owned treatment works. 33 U.S.C. § 1314(g)(1);
see id. § 1317(b)(1), (c).
    The record suggests that indirect dischargers comprise a
significant portion of point sources, although the precise
percentage is unclear. EPA states in Program Plan 15 that
“ELGs apply to between 35,000 and 45,000 U.S. direct
dischargers, as well as to another 129,000 facilities that
discharge to POTWs” (i.e. indirect dischargers). 3-ER-600,
Program Plan 15, at 2-1. And the record suggests that, in
some industries, the vast majority of facilities are indirect
dischargers. See 3-ER-707, Preliminary Category Review, at
22 (reporting that, when the Plastics Molding and Forming
ELG was promulgated in 1984, the category covered
approximately 810 direct dischargers and 1145 indirect
dischargers). For example, EPA indicated in Program Plan
15 that “[o]ver 95 percent of the permitted facilities [in the
48            WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


Electrical and Electronic Components category] are indirect
dischargers.” 3-ER-628, Program Plan 15, at 6-1.
    On appeal, EPA acknowledges that the Category
Ranking Analysis “does not include data for indirect
dischargers,” but responds that “EPA does not count on
DMR data to be faultless.” EPA argues that DMR data is the
best information it has available, and relying on it was
therefore not unreasonable.
    The generic argument that EPA need not rely on perfect
data cannot justify EPA’s use of data that does not
meaningfully address indirect dischargers at all. See Flyers
Rts. Educ. Fund, Inc. v. Fed. Aviation Admin., 864 F.3d 738,
744 (D.C. Cir. 2017) (concluding agency’s reliance on study
to refuse to initiate rulemaking was arbitrary and capricious
where the study failed to consider or address important
aspect of the problem). And more fundamentally, the record
does not support EPA’s contention that it lacked data about
indirect dischargers. In Preliminary Plan 15, EPA suggested
that it was considering using Toxics Release Inventory
(“TRI”) data “to assess discharges of additional toxic
pollutants not reported on DMRs, as well as indirect
discharges.” 2-ER-459, Preliminary Plan 15, at 5-10. EPA
already used TRI data in its Preliminary Reviews—the
second step of its review process—to evaluate the risk posed
by indirect dischargers, but EPA apparently elected, without
explanation, not to incorporate this data into the Category
Ranking Analysis (the first step of the process from which
EPA decides whether to even proceed to the second step).
See, e.g., 3-ER-628, Program Plan 15, at 6-1 (considering
TRI data in evaluating indirect discharges from Electrical
and Electronic Components category).
                  WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                         49


    At bottom, EPA could not have reasonably carried out
its obligations to review pretreatment standards and
guidelines for the Seven Industrial Categories by relying
exclusively on the Category Ranking Analysis. EPA relied
exclusively on data from direct dischargers, without offering
any explanation as to why EPA believed it was reasonable
to infer that data accurately represented indirect dischargers.
EPA thus “entirely fai[led] to consider an important aspect
of the problem,” State Farm, 463 U.S. at 43, and failed to
“provide a ‘reasonable explanation as to why it cannot or
will not exercise its discretion’ to initiate rulemaking.”
Compassion Over Killing, 849 F.3d at 854 (quoting
Massachusetts, 549 U.S. at 533).
       D. Unregulated Pollutants
    Petitioners’      third     argument      concerns     the
comprehensiveness of the ELGs in terms of whether they
cover all relevant pollutants. For example, Petitioners point
out that the ELGs for the Seven Industrial Categories do not
address nutrient pollution, even though EPA now recognizes
that nutrient pollution “is one of the most widespread, costly,
and challenging environmental problems impacting water
quality in the United States.” 2-ER-0355, Nutrient Report, at
1-1. Similarly, Petitioners argue that the ELGs for several of
the Seven Industrial Categories do not cover discharge from
stormwater runoff, even though Congress purportedly
amended the CWA in 1987—after these ELGs were
promulgated—to make clear that stormwater runoff should
be regulated.18


18
   To the extent Petitioners argue EPA must revise these ELGs to address
all relevant pollutants, we do not have jurisdiction to address this claim.
50                WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


    As with the technology-based factors discussed above,
the mere fact an ELG is underinclusive is not, by itself,
grounds to find EPA’s actions to be arbitrary and capricious.
Nonetheless, as with developments in technology, we do not
think that unregulated pollutants19 are a matter that EPA may
simply ignore without explanation.
    The CWA clearly contemplates that any given ELG
should be comprehensive, covering all relevant pollutants.
Revision of outdated ELGs would presumptively be
“appropriate” and EPA must justify its decision not to do so.
Further, even taken on its own terms, it is not at all clear that
the Category Ranking Analysis is capable of identifying
which ELGs can be revised to “produce the most significant
benefits” without consideration of unregulated pollutants.
    EPA used DMR data to conduct both the Concentration
Ranking Analysis and Load Ranking Analysis. See 3-ER-
0451, Preliminary Plan 15 at 5-2; 3-ER-0541, Program Plan
15 at 5-1. However, in reporting this DMR data to EPA,
facilities are generally only required to include information
about pollutants that are subject to discharge limits under the
relevant permit. See 2-ER-308–09, GOA Report, at 28–29;
3-ER-669, Load Ranking Analysis, at 2. Occasionally, a
permit will include limits for a pollutant not covered by an

Our Children’s Earth, 527 F.3d at 846 (district court has jurisdiction
over challenges related to “non-discretionary duties” under § 505(a)(2)).
19
   We use the term “unregulated pollutants” to refer to pollutants that are
not addressed by the relevant ELG for that category. In using this term,
we do not mean to suggest that pollutants not addressed by an ELG are
never regulated. Even where a pollutant is not addressed by a given ELG,
it is still possible that the permit issuer could include facility-specific
limitations for that pollutant on a case-by-case basis. See 2-ER-308–09,
GOA Report, at 28–29; 3-ER-669, Load Ranking Analysis, at 2.
               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                 51


ELG, but in general this means that DMR data does not
contain discharge information about unregulated pollutants.
    The absence of robust data for unregulated pollutants
undermined the reliability of the Category Ranking
Analysis. For the Concentration Ranking Analysis, this
meant that EPA based its concentration estimates for
unregulated pollutants on a very small sample of facilities
that are not necessarily representative of the overall industry.
For example, Petitioners point out that only 9 of the 331
facilities in the Petroleum Refining category reported data
for total nitrogen pollution. This skewed the Load Ranking
Analysis because it meant discharges of unregulated
pollutants were, for the most part, not reflected in a
category’s overall pollution load at all. Indeed, EPA
explicitly acknowledged this limitation in DMR data in
Program Plan 15. See 3-ER-669, Load Ranking Analysis, at
2.
    Fundamentally, the existence of unregulated pollutants
would seemingly be central to any attempt to determine
where a rulemaking would “produce the most significant
benefits.” EPA’s focus on the overall amount of pollution
being contributed by each source category says little about
the actual benefits of any potential revision. Just as some
consideration of the extent to which an ELG is out of date is
necessary to determine the benefits of revision, so too some
consideration of the extent to which an ELG is
underinclusive is also necessary. For example, if, as
Petitioners argue, the imposition of ELGs for nutrient
pollution for the Seven Industrial Categories would produce
significant pollution reduction benefits, that fact bears
directly on EPA’s decision to prioritize revision of certain
ELGs over others. Again, EPA must give at least some
consideration to this aspect of the problem in order for its
52             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


analysis to comport with the minimum requirements of
rationality.
    As with the pretreatment standards discussed in the
preceding section, EPA does not offer any real response to
this argument. EPA concedes that the data does not contain
information about all pollutants and argues that while it had
recognized DMR data was flawed, it is the best information
EPA has available. But EPA indicated in Preliminary Plan
15 that it could have incorporated TRI data into its Category
Ranking Analysis “to assess discharges of additional toxic
pollutants not reported on DMRs,” but declined to do so
without explanation. 2-ER-459, Preliminary Plan 15, at 5-
10. Here, EPA ignored unregulated pollutants without any
explanation as to how it exercised its discretion and failed to
consider an important aspect of ELGs and the CWA. See
State Farm, 463 U.S. at 43.
     E. Other Purported Deficiencies
    Finally, Petitioners argue that it was arbitrary and
capricious for EPA to rely on its Category Ranking Analysis
because EPA did not accurately classify facilities into point
source categories in preparing the data upon which that
analysis relied. The DMR data does not include specific
information with regards to which ELG category, if any, a
given facility is subject. Instead, EPA used Standard
Industrial Classification (“SIC”) codes to group various
facilities into source categories. See 2-ER-485,
Concentration Ranking Analysis, at 3.
    The problem with this method is that the SIC codes do
not perfectly line up with the ELG source categories in the
regulations. For example, a detailed study conducted by EPA
in 2019 indicated that there were 143 or fewer petroleum
refineries in the U.S., but the data used in the Category
               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA               53


Ranking Analysis identified over 300 facilities as petroleum
refineries. See 1-ER-0183, Detailed Study of the Petroleum
Refining Category—2019 Report, at Appendix A-1 (Sept.
2019); 2-ER-0495, Concentration Ranking Analysis, at 13;
3-ER-0670, Load Ranking Analysis, at 3. Petitioners claim
that EPA also excluded approximately 20 facilities that are
petroleum refineries from the Concentration Ranking
Analysis because the facilities did not report data in a
comparable way. See 2-ER-485, Concentration Ranking
Analysis, at 3. Similarly, Petitioners claim that the
Concentration Ranking Analysis considered pollution
discharge data from only 35 fertilizer facilities, even though
prior EPA reports had identified 123 such facilities. See 2-
ER-0557, Earthjustice Fertilizer Comments, at 16.
    EPA admits that the source category classifications were
overinclusive but argues this is not an issue for two reasons.
First, EPA claims that it sought to be overinclusive “across
every source category, which, in the aggregate, should go
some distance toward cancelling out the effects of over-
representation in any single category.” Second, EPA argues
that it “controls for some imprecisions by evaluating DMR
data differently year over year.”
    The latter issue is different in kind from those discussed
supra Sections III.B–D. The Category Ranking Analysis’s
inability to evaluate technology, pollution from indirect
dischargers, and unregulated pollutants are fundamental
limitations that cast doubt on the scope of what the Category
Ranking Analysis was capable of evaluating. By contrast,
the first issue of classifying sources at most casts doubt on
the precision of the model to an extent that is not clearly
established by Petitioners. EPA believes that whatever errors
are introduced by this issue are not so significant that they
undermine its accuracy. Technical judgments such as this are
54             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


generally entitled to deference. See Env’t Def. Ctr., Inc. v.
EPA, 344 F.3d 832, 869 (9th Cir. 2003).
    What is more, Petitioners do not identify a reasonable
alternative to address this issue. As EPA points out, “[t]he
alternative that Petitioners apparently prefer—facility-by-
facility classification decisions for 375,000 individual
dischargers—would be impractical and ill-suited to EPA’s
annual review process.” The only other alternative would
presumably be to order EPA to not use DMR data at all. Such
a directive would be counterproductive, given that DMR
data has substantial benefits as “the most comprehensive
data source quantifying pollutants discharged directly to
surface waters of the U.S.” 2-ER-484, Concentration
Ranking Analysis, at 2. Accordingly, in the absence of any
viable alternative proposed by Petitioners, it was reasonable
for EPA to rely on the best data it had available, even if the
data was far from perfect.
     F. EPA’s Remaining Arguments
    EPA does little to defend the substance of the Category
Ranking Analysis. Instead, EPA attempts to downplay the
significance of the Category Ranking Analysis and invokes
the need to defer to EPA’s judgment in setting
administration priorities. None of these arguments are
sufficient to alter our conclusion.
    First, EPA argues that it considered technological
developments at later stages of its review process. EPA
argues that it does not matter that EPA failed to consider
technological developments with respect to categories
screened out at the initial stage because the agency is not
required to review each and every source category. A similar
argument could be made with respect to pretreatment
standards and unregulated pollutants. But as explained supra
               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                55


Section III.A, the plain text of the CWA requires that EPA
review each ELG. The fact that EPA conducted a more
thorough review as to other ELGs is thus largely beside the
point because EPA must offer an explanation why it is
choosing not to revise each ELG. And as to six of the Seven
Industrial Categories, the only explanation EPA offered was
the deficient Category Ranking Analysis.
    Second, EPA argues that the method it uses for reviewing
ELGs is “iterative” and changes from year-to-year. See 4-
ER-995, Program Plan 15 Response to Comments, at 252
(describing prior methods). For example, in Program Plan
14, EPA focused its analysis on the harmful effects of
nutrient pollution, and in Program Plan 15 EPA focused on
the harmful effects of PFAs. See id. EPA seems to suggest
that iterating in this manner allows it to address many of the
issues identified by Petitioners.
    But EPA has not offered an explanation, either in its brief
or the administrative record, of how this iterative process
actually solves the problems with the Category Ranking
Analysis discussed above. Instead, EPA simply lists the
various methods that it has used over time and suggests this
“help[s] EPA identify point source categories (PSCs) and
industries for further review in a more dynamic way.” 4-ER-
995, Program Plan 15 Response to Comments, at 252. Nor
is there any obvious logic behind the way EPA has used
different review methods from year to year. If anything, the
decisions it makes based on these changing methods appear
arbitrary.
    For example, in Program Plan 14 EPA conducted “a
nutrient rankings analysis to review industrial categories that
typically discharge nutrients and would otherwise not rank
high in toxicity rankings.” Id. The Fertilizer Manufacturing
56             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


category ranked very highly in this nutrient ranking analysis.
See 2-ER-355, Nutrient Report, at 1-1. If EPA were engaged
in some iterative process that focused on addressing
particular types of pollution in each review cycle, one would
have expected EPA to revise the Fertilizer Manufacturing
ELG based on this finding (or at least study the matter
further). Instead, EPA stated in Preliminary Plan 15 that
EPA was not revising the Fertilizer Manufacturing ELG
because the ELG did “not rank highly in [the Concentration
Ranking Analysis] of pollutant discharges as compared to
the other categories and other current EPA priorities for
rulemaking.” 2-ER-450, Preliminary Plan 15, at 5-1. In other
words, EPA conducted a focused analysis of nutrient
pollution one year but then refused to initiate a rulemaking
based on it by citing the more general Category Ranking
Analysis that it did in the next.
    Similarly, EPA claims that its decision to switch from
the Concentration Ranking Analysis in Preliminary Plan 15
to the Load Ranking Analysis in Program Plan 15 was part
of this iterative approach. See 4-ER-995–96, Program Plan
15 Comment Response, at 252–53. The results of the Load
Ranking Analysis differed substantially from the results of
the Concentration Ranking Analysis. Compare 2-ER-456–
58, Preliminary Plan 15, at 5-7 to 5-9, with 3-ER-616–18,
Program Plan 15, at 5-3 to 5-5. Yet in Program Plan 15, EPA
stated it would continue to prioritize its review of the same
source categories that ranked highly in the Concentration
Ranking Analysis, without offering any meaningful
explanation why the difference in the results of the two
analyses was insignificant. See 3-ER-616, Program Plan 15,
at 5-3 (“The results of the pollutant load ranking analysis . . .
did not present any findings that altered EPA’s decision on
prioritization . . . .”).
               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                57


    To the extent there is a method behind EPA’s process
from year to year that addressed Petitioners’ concerns, and a
reason why EPA believes it is appropriate to rely on an
incomplete tool such as the Category Ranking Analysis as
part of some iterative process, EPA was required to
“articulate a satisfactory explanation” of that method on the
record. Locke, 626 F.3d at 1048 (quoting State Farm, 463
U.S. at 43). We will “not supply a reasoned basis for [EPA’s]
action that [EPA] itself has not given.” Id. (citation
omitted)). In the absence of a more clearly articulated
explanation for these decisions, the concept of an “iterative”
process seems less like a reasoned basis for EPA’s decisions,
and more like the kind of “post hoc rationalization[]” that
cannot provide the basis for affirming EPA’s actions.
Citizens to Pres. Overton Park, Inc. v. Volpe, 401 U.S. 402,
419 (1971) (internal quotation mark omitted).
    Third, EPA argues that it did not rely solely on the
Category Ranking Analysis to select source categories for
further study. More generally, EPA argues that Petitioners
may not usurp the agency’s authority to set its own priorities.
    In Program Plan 15, EPA stated that its
“recommendation to further prioritize categories also
considers other aspects such as stakeholder input and
Administration priorities.” 3-ER-616, Program Plan 15, at 5-
3. By way of explanation, the plan suggested that “EPA
continues to focus on and evaluate the extent and nature of
PFAS discharges and assess opportunities for limiting those
discharges from multiple industrial Categories.” Id. For
example, EPA decided to conduct a preliminary review of
the Landfills Category based on “stakeholder input” even
though it did not rank highly in the Concentration Ranking
Analysis. 2-ER-459, Preliminary Plan 15, at 5-10.
58             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


    EPA certainly has discretion to pursue administration
priorities, such as responding to the potential threat of PFAS,
at least insofar as those priorities are consistent with the
CWA. See New York v. EPA, 921 F.3d 257, 262 (D.C. Cir.
2019) (“In general, EPA has broad discretion to choose how
best to marshal its limited resources and personnel to carry
out its delegated responsibilities,’ which means that EPA has
discretion to determine the timing and priorities of its
regulatory agenda.” (internal quotation marks omitted)). As
we noted, this deference, however, is not unlimited. See
Jajati, 102 F.4th at 1017; Compassion Over Killing, 849
F.3d at 854.
    In Program Plan 15, EPA expressly relied on the
Category Ranking Analysis in declining to revise the ELGs
for six of the Seven Industrial Categories. See 2-ER-454–55,
Preliminary Plan 15, at 5-5 to 5-6; 3-ER-623–25, Program
Plan 15, at 5-10 to 5-12; 4-ER-1011, 1013, Program Plan 15
Comment Responses, at 268, 270. And yet, as explained
above, that analysis suffered from several flaws that
undermined its reliability as a tool to identify ELGs the
revision of which would provide the most significant
benefits. It is possible that, even having properly considered
these deficiencies, EPA would have pressed forward with its
current approach based on other administration priorities,
but it is not certain. Consistent with the APA, EPA must set
forth its reasons not to revise the ELGs for the Seven
Industrial Categories on the record. The vague invocation of
administration priorities, standing alone, does not meet this
standard.
    At bottom, EPA was required to offer a reasoned
explanation why revision of the ELGs for the Seven
Industrial Categories was not appropriate. In Program Plan
15, EPA offered the Category Ranking Analysis as the only
               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                 59


basis not to do so for six of the seven categories. Insofar as
the Category Ranking Analysis was flawed, so too were
EPA’s decisions based upon it.
      G. Review of Plastics Molding and Forming
         Category
    The forgoing analysis in supra Sections III.B-F applies
with equal force with respect to six of the Seven Industrial
Categories, which EPA screened out by relying solely on the
Category Ranking Analysis. However, a different analysis is
necessary with respect to the Plastics Molding and Forming
category. Unlike the other categories at issue, EPA carried
out a Preliminary Review (the second step in EPA’s review
process) of the Plastics Molding and Forming category. See
3-ER-623–25, Program Plan 15, at 5-10 to 5-12; 3-ER-707–
27, Plan 15 Preliminary Review, at 22–40.
    As part of its Preliminary Review of this category, EPA
considered not only DMR data, but also TRI data, which
includes data about indirect dischargers, and certain
additional data about PFAs discharges that was obtained
through third-party sources. See 3-ER-710–15, Plan 15
Preliminary Review, at 25–30. To evaluate whether ELGs
for currently regulated pollutants are correct (or out of date),
EPA compared current discharge data for the industry
against the regulatory standard set in the ELG. See 3-ER-
715–18, Plan 15 Preliminary Review, at 30–33. EPA also
reviewed discharge data for pollutants that are not currently
covered by existing ELGs for this category. See 3-ER-718–
23, Plan 15 Preliminary Review, at 33–38. EPA ultimately
concluded that it was “not prioritizing the Plastics Molding
and Forming Category for further review or ELG revision at
this time” because “[b]ased on the available data, revisions
to the ELG are unlikely to result in significant pollutant
60               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


discharge reductions relative to the other point source
categories discussed in this Plan.” 3-ER-624, Program Plan
15, at 5-11.
    Unlike the other categories discussed above, EPA
certainly had sufficient data before it about the Plastics
Molding and Forming category to make this determination.
EPA gave consideration to changes in pollution control
technology, pollution from indirect dischargers and
unregulated pollutants. Nonetheless, Petitioners identify at
least two other deficiencies in EPA’s review of the Plastics
Molding and Forming category to which EPA offers no
meaningful response.20
    First, in its Preliminary Review of this category “EPA
found that 98 percent of the annual loads were associated
with stormwater,” even though stormwater runoff is not
currently covered by the ELG. 3-ER-624, Program Plan 15,
at 5-11. Despite this finding that the vast majority of
pollution was contributed by stormwater runoff, EPA chose
to exclude information about stormwater runoff from its
review of unregulated pollutants contributed by this
category. See 3-ER-624, Program Plan 15, at 5-11; 3-ER-
710–11, 713–14, Plan 15 Preliminary Review, at 25–26, 28–
29. Perplexingly, at no point did EPA consider whether it
would be appropriate to establish ELGs for stormwater


20
  The record belies Petitioners’ contention that EPA improperly failed
to consider whether to set ELGs for certain pollutants for which it had
previously “reserved” setting limits. In its Preliminary Review of this
category, EPA explicitly examined discharge data about these pollutants
but found no information that would lead the agency to alter its prior
decision to reserve setting limits. See 3-ER-716–17, Plan 15 Preliminary
Review, at 31-32.
               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                 61


runoff even though they accounted for such a high
percentage of the overall pollution load for the industry.
    Second, upon reviewing the pollutants currently covered
by the ELG, EPA concluded that “[r]eported average
concentrations of TSS, oil and grease, and BOD5,” were “an
order of magnitude below the current ELG.” 3-ER-710, Plan
15 Preliminary Review, at 31. This is seemingly strong
evidence that the ELGs for these pollutants are less strict
than they should be, and yet EPA offers no further discussion
of this finding.
    Petitioners argue it was arbitrary and capricious for EPA
to fail to revise the Plastics Molding and Forming ELG in
light of these issues. EPA offers no response to these
category-specific arguments, instead relying on the generic
claim that there are no mandatory factors applicable to its
periodic reviews.
    An agency is required to “articulate a satisfactory
explanation for its action including a rational connection
between the facts found and the choice made” and may not
rely on “an explanation for its decision that runs counter to
the evidence.” State Farm, 463 U.S. at 43 (citation and
internal quotation marks omitted). EPA’s bare assertion that
revision of this category was “unlikely to result in significant
pollutant discharge reductions relative to the other point
source categories,” 3-ER-624, Program Plan 15, at 5-11,
without any further explanation or engagement with the
contrary facts in the record is insufficient to meet this
standard. It is of course possible that EPA has some reason
why it believed tightening these ELGs or regulating
stormwater runoff would not yield significant benefits. But
nowhere, either in the record before the agency or on appeal,
does EPA explain what those reasons might be, and we are
62             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


not at liberty to supply such an explanation. See Locke, 626
F.3d at 1048. Given how significant these two issues seem
to be for any evaluation of the benefits of a potential
revision, and the absence of any meaningful explanation
about them, we remand to the agency to consider them
further.
IV. CONCLUSION
     For the reasons discussed above, we hold that EPA’s
action in declining to revise the ELGs for the Seven
Industrial Categories was arbitrary and capricious. We
therefore remand for the EPA to reconsider its decision or
provide a fuller explanation. See Locke, 626 F.3d at 1048,
1053 (remanding “to afford the agency the opportunity either
to articulate a reasoned explanation for its action or to adopt
a different action with a reasoned explanation that supports
it”).
  PETITION FOR REVIEW DENIED in part,
GRANTED in part, and REMANDED


BEA, Circuit Judge, dissenting:

     As an appellate court, we do not have original subject
matter jurisdiction over this case under the Clean Water Act
(“CWA”) and our binding precedent in Our Children’s
Earth Foundation v. United States Environmental
Protection Agency, 527 F.3d 842 (9th Cir. 2008) (McKeown,
J.). I respectfully dissent.
    Pursuant to the CWA, the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (“EPA”) promulgates effluent
limitations, guidelines, and standards (“ELGs”) for pollutant
               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                63


dischargers of various industries (“source category” or
“category”). If a person believes that an ELG merits
revision, he may petition EPA for revisory rulemaking. If
his rulemaking petition is denied, he may sue EPA directly
in a court of appeals under the CWA, as he challenges an
EPA action in promulgating or approving the ELG. That
said, it can take many years for EPA to respond to such a
rulemaking petition.
    Separately, the CWA also mandates EPA to review
existing ELGs periodically for possible revision. Maj. Op.
at 5–6. EPA biennially publishes the results of such ELG
reviews. Id. at 8–9. For each two-year period, EPA first
issues a “preliminary plan” in the first year to solicit public
comments, and EPA then issues a “program plan” the next
year responding to those comments. Id. at 9. If a person
believes EPA has failed to perform any mandatory duties in
this biennial ELG review process, he may sue EPA in a
district court under the CWA. In theory, such a suit may be
brought every two years.
    Accordingly, to avoid awaiting EPA’s protracted
response to his rulemaking petition, a person who desires
revision of an ELG may attempt to challenge EPA’s periodic
review process, arguing that EPA’s review criteria
improperly deferred the consideration of that ELG for
possible revision. This shortcut, however, was largely
foreclosed by our decision in Our Children’s Earth, because
EPA enjoys substantial discretion in designing its review
criteria and district courts’ jurisdiction under the CWA
covers only EPA’s failure to perform its mandatory duties.
527 F.3d at 851.
   What if the same person still challenges EPA’s review
process but somehow styles his claim as a challenge to
64              WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


EPA’s promulgation or approval of the existing ELGs that
EPA’s review criteria have deprioritized for consideration of
revision? By styling his claim as such, he obviates the need
to file a slow-moving rulemaking petition with EPA,
sidesteps the jurisdictional inquiry as to whether he
challenges EPA’s failure to perform a mandatory duty, and
paves for himself a direct pathway to a court of appeals.
    This is what Petitioners have confected here. 1 The
majority now licenses this confection by finding that we
have original and exclusive jurisdiction over this case. In
doing so, my colleagues pay only lip service to the CWA and
Our Children’s Earth, 527 F.3d 842. I do not join such a
disregard for the authorities that bind us.
                                 I.
     EPA typically proceeds in multiple steps when it
determines whether to revise an ELG. Maj. Op. at 9. First,
it uses a screening methodology to identify ELG candidates
for further study. Id. Second, it selects some ELGs for
preliminary study, considering not only the results from the
first step but also other factors such as stakeholder input and
policy priorities. Id. at 9–10. Third, EPA selects a few ELGs
for multi-year detailed study. Id. at 10. Then, with the
benefit of the detailed study, EPA finally decides whether to
initiate a rulemaking process to revise the studied ELGs. Id.



1
  Petitioners include “Waterkeeper Alliance, Center for Biological
Diversity, Clean Water Action, Food & Water Watch, Healthy Gulf,
Environment America, Surfrider Foundation, Bayou City Waterkeeper,
Black Warrior Riverkeeper, San Antonio Bay Estuarine Waterkeeper,
Tennessee Riverkeeper, and San Francisco Baykeeper.” Maj. Op. at 12–
13 n.3.
                 WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                        65


    Petitioners claim that the screening methodology EPA
used in its most recent Effluent Guidelines Program Plan 15
(“Program Plan 15”)2—in particular, the Category Ranking
Analysis3—failed to account for technological advancement
and other factors, resulting in the de-prioritization of many
ELGs for further study, including the ELGs for seven
specific source categories (“Seven Industrial Categories”).4
See id. at 12–13, 33–34.
    As a threshold matter, we must ascertain whether we
have subject matter jurisdiction over Petitioners’ claim.
Under the CWA, courts’ jurisdiction is bifurcated. Section
505(a)(2) of the CWA grants district courts original
jurisdiction over a variety of matters, while Section

2
  Program Plan 15 was issued in January 2023, following EPA’s
Preliminary Effluent Guidelines Program Plan 15 (“Preliminary Plan
15”). See Maj. Op. at 9–12.
3
  Category Ranking Analysis “compares discharge data across all 59
source categories with existing ELGs to identify potential candidates”
for preliminary study. Maj. Op. at 9. In this case, EPA calculated the
concentration of pollutants in the discharges from each of the 59 source
categories and the total pollutant load discharged by each category. Id.
at 10–12. EPA then selected for further study the seven categories that
ranked the highest. Id. at 10–11. Notably, EPA “expects to expand” its
Category Ranking Analysis in the future “to include additional metrics
such as . . . age of regulations, current ELG requirements and technology
basis,” and so forth. As will be discussed, a small part of Petitioners’
claim challenges EPA’s preliminary study of the ELGs for one source
category. See id. at 59–62.
4
  The Seven Industrial Categories include: “(1) Petroleum Refining;
(2) Organic     Chemicals,     Plastics,   and     Synthetic    Fibers
Manufacturing . . . ;   (3) Inorganic     Chemical     Manufacturing;
(4) Fertilizer Manufacturing; (5) Pesticide Chemical Manufacturing;
(6) Plastics Molding and Forming Facilities; and (7) Nonferrous Metals
Manufacturing.” Maj. Op. at 12–13.
66             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


509(b)(1) confers courts of appeals original and exclusive
jurisdiction only over certain carefully circumscribed
subjects. 33 U.S.C. §§ 1365(a)(2), 1369(b)(1).
    Specifically, Section 505(a)(2) provides that district
courts “shall have jurisdiction” over actions “where there is
alleged a failure of the Administrator to perform any act or
duty under this chapter which is not discretionary with the
Administrator.” 33 U.S.C. § 1365(a)(2) (emphasis added).
In contrast, Section 509(b)(1) grants courts of appeals
original and exclusive jurisdiction over seven enumerated
subjects, of which the following allegedly form the bases of
Petitioners’ claim here: “Review of the Administrator’s
action (A) in promulgating any standard of performance
under section 1316 of this title, . . . (C) in promulgating any
effluent standard, prohibition, or pretreatment standard
under section 1317 of this title, . . . (E) in approving or
promulgating any effluent limitation or other limitation
under section 1311, 1312, 1316, or 1345 of this title, . . . .”
33 U.S.C. § 1369(b)(1) (emphases added).
    Given the plain text and the clear structure of the CWA,
we have admonished “against expansive application of”
Section 509(b)(1). Our Children’s Earth, 527 F.3d at 846
(quoting League of Wilderness Defenders v. Forsgren, 309
F.3d 1181, 1190 n.8 (9th Cir. 2002)); see also Nat. Res. Def.
Council v. EPA (“NRDC”), 542 F.3d 1235, 1242 (9th Cir.
2008) (“[W]e have cautioned that our jurisdiction under
[Section] 509(b)(1) is not to be construed expansively,
particularly given the ‘specificity and precision’ that
Congress used in identifying the actions that fall under
[Section] 509(b)(1).” (citation omitted)). As such, we would
have original and exclusive jurisdiction over this case only
               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA               67


if Petitioners challenged EPA’s actions in promulgating or
approving the ELGs for the Seven Industrial Categories.
    Petitioners do not so challenge. In fact, the relationship
between the screening methodology that they do challenge
and the actual promulgation or approval of any ELGs is both
procedurally distant and logically tenuous.           By the
majority’s own count, the Category Ranking Analysis is at
least two steps removed from EPA’s ultimate decisions
regarding whether to revise an ELG: the steps of preliminary
study and detailed study. Maj. Op. at 9–10.
    What’s more, one cannot draw a direct line between the
Category Ranking Analysis and EPA’s ultimate decisions on
ELG revision. The ELGs that are deprioritized by the
Category Ranking Analysis are not necessarily excluded
from consideration for possible revision because, as the
majority acknowledges, EPA selects ELGs for preliminary
study based not only on the results of its Category Ranking
Analysis but also on input from stakeholders and its policy
priorities. Id. The record demonstrates that EPA in fact
selected some ELGs for further study without regard to the
Category Ranking Analysis. See, e.g., id. at 57 (“EPA
decided to conduct a preliminary review of the Landfills
Category based on ‘stakeholder input’ even though it did not
rank highly in the Concentration Ranking Analysis.”
(citation omitted)).
    Therefore, Petitioners do not seek review of any EPA
actions in promulgating or approving ELGs and,
accordingly, we do not have original and exclusive
jurisdiction over this case under Section 509(b)(1).
68             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


                              II.
    Concluding the opposite, the majority misreads the
CWA, misconstrues this case, and misinterprets our binding
precedent.
                              A.
    First, the CWA. The majority appears to believe that
Section 509(b)(1) applies whenever a petitioner challenges
EPA’s discretionary actions, since Section 505(a)(2) allows
district courts to review only EPA’s failure in carrying out
its nondiscretionary duties. See id. at 25–26. In the
majority’s view, as Petitioners challenge EPA’s largely
discretionary decision regarding the ELGs for the Seven
Industrial Categories, they perhaps cannot sue in a district
court under Section 505(a)(2), so their claim must fall under
Section 509(b)(1). See id.
    The majority’s belief finds no basis in the text of the
CWA.       Section 509(b)(1) does not confer blanket
jurisdiction for us to review in the first instance all of EPA’s
discretionary actions. Rather, as relevant here, it extends our
original and exclusive jurisdiction to review only EPA’s
actions in “promulgating” and “approving” ELGs. 33
U.S.C. § 1369(b)(1)(A), (C), (E).              Simply put, “a
jurisdictional defect under [Section] 505(a)(2) does not
mean that jurisdiction is proper under [Section] 509(b)(1).”
Our Children’s Earth, 527 F.3d at 846.
                              B.
    My colleagues paint Petitioners’ claim as one
challenging not the Category Ranking Analysis or EPA’s
review process, but the “substance” of the ELGs for the
Seven Industrial Categories and “EPA’s decision not to
revise” them. Maj. Op. at 25–29. The majority then claims
                 WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                        69


that EPA’s decision not to revise an existing ELG effectively
equates to, and thus constitutes, EPA’s formal promulgation
or plain approval of that ELG. See id.
      As a matter of fact, however, EPA did not decline to
revise the ELGs for the Seven Industrial Categories. Instead,
EPA stated that, given its “current priorities and available
resources,” all the ELGs that it did not discuss in detail in its
Program Plan 15 were “not priorities for further study or
rulemaking at this time,” and EPA would “continue to
review all [] source categories while preparing the next
plan.”5 See also id. at 11 (“For categories not discussed in
detail in this Preliminary Plan 15, EPA is currently not
prioritizing further review.” (citation omitted)); id. at 15
(“EPA is not prioritizing [the petroleum refining] category
for further review at this time.” (citation omitted)); id. (“EPA
explained that [the fertilizer manufacturing category] ‘did
not rank highly as compared to the other categories . . . and,
importantly, other current EPA priorities for rulemaking.’”
(citation omitted)); id. at 16 (“EPA concluded that it was ‘not
prioritizing’ [the plastics molding and forming] category
. . . .” (citation omitted)). At oral argument, EPA denied
having made any final decision not to revise the ELGs for
the Seven Industrial Categories.6 Oral Arg. Video 25:50–

5
 To the extent that the majority believes the CWA mandates EPA’s
periodic review process to produce an ultimate decision not to revise the
ELGs that EPA has deprioritized, see Maj. Op. at 28 n.12, Petitioners
should have sued EPA for not having made such a decision in a district
court under Section 505(a)(2). See 33 U.S.C. § 1365(a)(2). Such a claim
concerns how EPA should construct its review process, not the
promulgation or approval of any ELGs.
6
 EPA concedes that Section 509(b)(1) would apply if we were to
misconstrue this case as involving “an EPA decision not to revise [an
70               WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


26:05,       https://www.ca9.uscourts.gov/media/video/?
20241205/23-636/.
    Moreover, the majority opinion is replete with
statements that reveal the real nature of Petitioners’ claim, to
wit: a challenge not to the substance of any ELGs, but to the
screening methodology used by EPA in its ELG review
process. See, e.g., Maj. Op. at 10 (“This case is focused on
how EPA conducted the first step of its review process, the
Category Ranking Analysis.”); id. at 40 (“Petitioners argue
it was arbitrary and capricious for EPA to rely on the
Category Ranking Analysis because it failed to account for,
or even consider, changes in pollution control technology.”);
id. at 42 (“[W]ithout at least some consideration of
technological developments, the Category Ranking Analysis
was incapable of achieving EPA’s stated goal of
‘prioritiz[ing] the revision of ELGs where they can produce
the most significant benefits.’”); id. at 47 (“The fact that
EPA did not consider pollution from indirect dischargers
casts substantial doubt on the ability of the Category
Ranking Analysis to carry out its stated purpose . . . .”); id.
at 49 (“At bottom, EPA could not have reasonably carried
out its obligations to review pretreatment standards and
guidelines for the Seven Industrial Categories by relying
exclusively on the Category Ranking Analysis.”); id. at 51
(“The absence of robust data for unregulated pollutants
undermined the reliability of the Category Ranking
Analysis.”); id. at 52 (“Petitioners argue that it was arbitrary
and capricious for EPA to rely on its Category Ranking
Analysis because EPA did not accurately classify facilities

ELG] in response to a petition [for rulemaking].” See Oral Arg. Video
25:50–27:52. Neither did Petitioners file a rulemaking petition, nor did
EPA make such a decision in this case.
              WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA               71


into point source categories in preparing the data upon which
that analysis relied.”); id. at 53 (“The Category Ranking
Analysis’s inability to evaluate technology, pollution from
indirect dischargers, and unregulated pollutants are
fundamental limitations that cast doubt on the scope of what
the Category Ranking Analysis was capable of evaluating.”);
id. at 54 (“EPA does little to defend the substance of the
Category Ranking Analysis.”). These statements from the
majority opinion, and many more, discuss EPA’s review
process and its Category Ranking Analysis, rather than the
substance of any ELGs, much less the promulgation or
approval thereof.
    Most revealing is the majority’s discussion of the waiver
issue in this case. Specifically, Petitioners argue that EPA
should have considered revising the ELGs for the Seven
Industrial Categories in its Program Plan 15, but Petitioners
did not mention four of the Seven Industrial Categories when
they submitted comments in response to EPA’s Preliminary
Plan 15. Id. at 29 (“[N]either Petitioners nor anyone else
submitted a comment on Preliminary Plan 15 asking EPA to
revise these [four] ELGs.”). To the extent Petitioners
purportedly challenge the substance of the ELGs for these
four unmentioned source categories, EPA contends that
Petitioners have failed to preserve their claim. Id. The
majority disagrees:

       Petitioners’ more general complaints about
       the ELG review process were sufficient to
       preserve the arguments they now raise. On
       appeal, Petitioners argue, inter alia, that the
       Category Ranking Analysis failed to properly
       account     for     changes     in      control
       technology . . . .
72              WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


       ...
       What is more, the issues Petitioners raise on
       appeal are not new to EPA. For example, in
       2012, the Government Accountability Office
       (“GAO”) issued a report criticizing EPA for
       its periodic review process and identifying
       many of the issues Petitioners now raise.

Id. at 30–31.
    So, according to the majority, Petitioners have
successfully preserved their claim that EPA should have
considered revising the ELGs for all the Seven Industrial
Categories because Petitioners, in essence, challenge EPA’s
“review process” and its “Category Ranking Analysis”—not
the substance of the ELGs for the Seven Industrial
Categories. See id. at 29–32. But, in the meantime, the
majority holds that this Court enjoys original and exclusive
jurisdiction because Petitioners, in essence, challenge the
substance of the ELGs for the Seven Industrial Categories.
See id. at 23–29. The majority cannot have it both ways.
    In my view, Petitioners do not seek review of EPA’s
actions in promulgating or approving the ELGs for the Seven
Industrial Categories. Instead, the thrust of Petitioners’
claim is nothing but a challenge to EPA’s screening
methodology in its review process. The CWA does not
make such a challenge reviewable directly by a court of
appeals under Section 509(b)(1).
                             C.
    An accurate construction of Petitioners’ claim brings this
case squarely within the ambit of our binding precedent.
Our Children’s Earth, 527 F.3d 842.
              WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA               73


    About two decades ago, Our Children’s Earth
Foundation and Ecological Rights Foundation (together,
“OCE”) sued EPA in the district court, alleging, inter alia,
that the screening methodology used by EPA in its periodic
review of existing ELGs failed to account for technological
advancement. Id. at 844–45. Sound familiar? Like
Petitioners here, OCE claimed that, due to the deficient
screening methodology, EPA had identified only a handful
of ELGs for further study, leaving a wide swath of other
ELGs not considered for possible revision. See Appellant &
Petitioner’s Opening Br. at 15–16, 19, Our Children’s Earth
Found. v. EPA, 527 F.3d 842 (9th Cir. 2008) (No. 05-
16214). The district court ruled in EPA’s favor, finding that
EPA had discharged its mandatory duties under the CWA.
Our Children’s Earth Found. v. EPA, No. C 04-2132PJH,
2005 WL 6395158, at *6 (N.D. Cal. May 20, 2005).
    OCE appealed, and we had to deal with a threshold
question on appeal: whether the district court had subject
matter jurisdiction in the first place. Our Children’s Earth,
527 F.3d at 845. We held that OCE properly sued EPA in
the district court under Section 505(a)(2) because the
original and exclusive jurisdiction enjoyed by courts of
appeals under Section 509(b)(1) “covers only challenges to
‘promulgation’ or ‘approval’” of ELGs, “not failure to
comply with allegedly mandated [ELG review] procedures,
which [was] the thrust of OCE’s suit.” Id. at 846–47.
    Notably, when presented with OCE’s assertion that
EPA’s screening methodology left all but a handful of ELGs
off its revision priority list, the panel in Our Children’s
Earth—unlike the majority here—did not say OCE
effectively challenged the substance of those ELGs that EPA
had deprioritized for consideration of revision. Rather, the
panel concluded as follows:
74            WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


       We [] agree with the district court that the
       circuit court’s exclusive jurisdiction “extends
       only to a substantive review of the
       appropriateness of the guidelines actually
       promulgated, and not to the threshold
       question of whether the statutory
       requirements of the CWA have been met.”
       No such promulgated [ELGs] are at issue
       here.

Id. at 847 (emphasis added); id. (finding that OCE’s
challenge did “not stem from the promulgation or approval
of” any ELGs). Hence, OCE’s suit did not fall under Section
509(b)(1). Id. Neither does this case.
    Granted, unlike OCE, which generally contended that
EPA failed to update as many ELGs as OCE claimed a more
adequate screening methodology would have recommended,
Petitioners here specifically identify the Seven Industrial
Categories that EPA has deprioritized for further study. But
the majority cannot seriously distinguish Our Children’s
Earth simply because Petitioners’ claim is more specific
than OCE’s. Otherwise, plaintiffs who challenge EPA’s
review process can effortlessly evade district courts’
jurisdiction by identifying some ELGs that the review
process has deprioritized. That would render Our Children’s
Earth obsolete.
    Therefore, where, as here, a plaintiff challenges the
screening methodology used in EPA’s review process, the
original and exclusive jurisdiction of a court of appeals may
not be invoked merely by styling the claim as a challenge to
the substance of the ELGs that EPA’s review process has
deprioritized for further study.
                 WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                        75


                                  D.
   Against Our Children’s Earth, the majority relies on the
Tenth Circuit’s opinion in Maier v. United States
Environmental Protection Agency, 114 F.3d 1032 (10th Cir.
1997), a case that we implicitly distinguished in Our
Children’s Earth. 7 See Maj. Op. at 26–28. Not only is
Maier not binding, but it is also inapt—it did not involve
EPA’s periodic review of ELGs or any screening
methodology used in such review.
    In Maier, the petitioners petitioned EPA to initiate
rulemaking under the CWA, contending that EPA’s
regulations regarding wastewater treatment had been
rendered inadequate by technological developments and
should thus be revised. 114 F.3d at 1034. EPA denied their
petition, and the petitioners sued EPA in the Tenth Circuit,
invoking its original and exclusive jurisdiction pursuant to
Section 509(b)(1). Id. at 1036. The relevant question before
the Tenth Circuit was whether EPA’s denial of the
petitioners’ rulemaking petition to revise an ELG constituted
an “action” “in approving or promulgating” the ELG. See



7
  In Our Children’s Earth, EPA relied on Maier to argue that the district
court improperly exercised jurisdiction under Section 505(a)(2). See
Answering Br. of the Federal Defendants-Appellees at 51, Our
Children’s Earth Found. v. EPA, 527 F.3d 842 (9th Cir. 2008) (No. 05-
16214). OCE countered that Maier was distinguishable because,
different from the petitioners in Maier who challenged EPA’s refusal to
revise upon a rulemaking petition, OCE challenged “EPA’s overall
procedure in conducting its effluent guidelines and limitations reviews.”
Appellants’ Reply Br. at 30, Our Children’s Earth Found. v. EPA, 527
F.3d 842 (9th Cir. 2008) (No. 05-16214). We sided with OCE on this
issue. Our Children’s Earth, 527 F.3d at 847.
76             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


id. at 1037. In other words, whether an inaction counts as an
action.
    The Tenth Circuit answered: It depends. An action “in”
approving or promulgating ELGs does not simply mean an
action “relating to” approving or promulgating ELGs, so
Section 509(b)(1) “arguably does not apply to [EPA]’s
refusal to promulgate a [new] rule in the first instance.” See
id.; see also NRDC, 542 F.3d at 1241–44 (holding that
Section 509(b)(1) did not apply because the plaintiffs sought
to compel EPA to promulgate new regulations). But the
Tenth Circuit went on to reason that a challenge to a failure
to revise an existing regulation “is more akin to” a challenge
to the existing regulation itself and can thus be “constru[ed]”
as a challenge to an action “in” the prior promulgation, or
the current approval, of that regulation. Maier, 114 F.3d at
1038. Accordingly, the Tenth Circuit concluded that the
original and exclusive jurisdiction of courts of appeals can
be invoked under Section 509(b)(1) if a petitioner’s
challenge is “to the substance of a regulation that the agency
has already promulgated.” Id.
    Following Maier, assuming it was correctly decided, we
would exercise original and exclusive jurisdiction over this
case, had Petitioners first petitioned EPA—as did the
petitioners in Maier—for rulemaking to revise the ELGs for
the Seven Industrial Categories and had EPA denied that
rulemaking petition. As discussed, however, neither did
Petitioners file such a petition actually challenging the
substance of the ELGs for the Seven Industrial Categories,
nor did EPA issue such a denial defending the substance of
these ELGs and declining to revise them.
    The majority thinks this is a “distinction without a
difference,” reasoning that EPA’s de-prioritization decision
                  WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                           77


in its review process is no different than EPA’s denial of a
rulemaking petition because we “must review the substance
of the existing ELGs” in both instances.8 Maj. Op. at 28.
The majority again contradicts itself.
     Specifically, when discussing the merits of Petitioners’
claim, the majority writes extensively to demarcate EPA’s
“review obligations,” id. at 35–40, and it recognizes that
“EPA has some discretion to select the manner and method
of its review” and to decide whether and when to revise any
of the existing ELGs as a result of its review, id. at 36; see
also id. at 6–9, 35 (quoting statutory provisions to delineate
the “scope of EPA’s periodic review obligations”). Then,
the majority devises that EPA’s discretion in that regard is
not unlimited because those “review obligations” must be
carried out “with an eye towards” “the substantive
requirements” set forth in the CWA, which requirements
“describe what the proper content of each ELG should be”
and are mandatory. Id. at 36–38. That said, the majority still
believes EPA’s “review obligations” under the CWA and the



8
  To the extent that the majority has put much emphasis on EPA’s
position as to this jurisdictional issue, see Maj. Op. at 24–25, it is worth
noting that EPA believes Maier is “very distinct” from this case because
the petitioners in Maier, unlike Petitioners here, did file a petition for
rulemaking and, as a result, EPA had an opportunity to defend the
substance of the ELG at issue there. Oral Arg. Video 26:52–27:53. This
distinction, according to EPA, is “very important.” Id. I agree. This
distinction may also have implications in determining whether Program
Plan 15 constitutes a final agency action. See Maj. Op. at 28 n.11. I have
no occasion to opine on such possible implications, since we do not have
original jurisdiction over this case in the first place. But see id. at 17–23
(the majority discussing this “final agency action” issue without
mentioning Maier).
78             WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


CWA’s “substantive requirements” are separate and distinct.
See id. at 35–40.
    Let’s apply the majority’s teaching to the analysis here.
Had Petitioners, like the petitioners in Maier, petitioned EPA
for rulemaking to revise the ELGs for the Seven Industrial
Categories and sued EPA upon its denial of their rulemaking
petition, Petitioners would have contended that the current
ELGs for the Seven Industrial Categories failed to comply
with the “substantive requirements” in the CWA, and the
majority would be analyzing those “substantive
requirements” to discern whether the current ELGs fall
short. Such a hypothetical case would have been properly
brought before this Court under Section 509(b)(1), and the
majority would be writing a totally different opinion—at the
very least, the majority’s attempt to bridge EPA’s “review
obligations” and the CWA’s “substantive requirements”
could be easily dispensed with. See id.
    This is why Maier is distinguishable: The petitioners in
Maier filed a petition for revisory rulemaking to challenge
the substance of the ELG at issue there, whereas Petitioners
here did not file such a petition; instead, they challenge only
the preliminary step that EPA has taken in its review process.
                               E.
    If all this is too complicated, I offer a simple litmus test:
Does the majority opinion detail the substance of the ELGs
for any of the Seven Industrial Categories? No, it does not.
Almost exclusively focusing on the alleged inadequacy of
the Category Ranking Analysis, the majority is largely silent
on the substance of the ELGs for the Seven Industrial
Categories—the purported sine qua non of Petitioners’ claim
                  WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA                           79


upon which my colleagues assert original and exclusive
jurisdiction.9 This silence tells volumes.
     My colleagues explain in a footnote that they could “not
opine, in greater detail, on the substance of particular ELGs”
because “EPA did not do so” when it responded to
Petitioners’ comments to Preliminary Plan 15. Id. at 25–26
n.9.      This explanation lays bare the majority’s
misconstruction of this case and its misplaced reliance on
Maier.
    In Program Plan 15, EPA did not discuss the substance
of the ELGs for the Seven Industrial Categories and instead
referred to the Category Ranking Analysis when responding
to Petitioners’ comments, because Petitioners’ comments—
different from a rulemaking petition as in Maier—merely
urged EPA to conduct a thorough review process for these
ELGs, and because EPA did not decline to revise these ELGs
like it did in Maier. Both Petitioners’ comments and EPA’s
responses largely centered on EPA’s review process and
how it triaged different ELGs. In fact, as the majority
acknowledges, Petitioners did not comment at all on the
substance of the ELGs for four of the Seven Industrial

9
  One exception perhaps is the majority’s discussion of the plastics
molding and forming category. Maj. Op. at 59–62. EPA did not screen
out this source category by relying on the Category Ranking Analysis;
rather, EPA conducted a preliminary study for this category and decided
not to “prioritiz[e]” it for further study because “revisions to th[is] ELG
are unlikely to result in significant pollutant discharge reductions relative
to the other point source categories discussed in [Program Plan 15].” Id.
at 59–60 (citation omitted). Nonetheless, Petitioners’ challenge to
EPA’s preliminary study on this ELG suffers from the same defect as
does Petitioners’ challenge to the Category Ranking Analysis, because
the preliminary study still does not constitute an EPA action in
promulgating or approving the ELG.
80            WATERKEEPER ALLIANCE V. USEPA


Categories. Id. at 29–32. No wonder EPA did not opine on
their substance—EPA was simply not put on notice nor
requested to offer such an opinion. And the fact that EPA
did not have an opportunity to defend the substance of the
ELGs at issue here is exactly why Maier is inapposite and
our exercise of original jurisdiction improper. See Oral Arg.
Video 26:52–27:53.
                            III.
    In my view, Petitioners challenge not whether the
substance of the ELGs for the Seven Industrial Categories
complies with the CWA’s substantive requirements, but
whether the Category Ranking Analysis satisfies EPA’s
review obligations under the CWA. Therefore, we do not
have original and exclusive jurisdiction under Section
509(b)(1) of the CWA.
    When an agency does not act as promptly as a petitioner
would prefer, suggestions for courts to act beyond their
jurisdiction come as no surprise. Statutes and precedents
usually curb that penchant for excess. As the majority here
oversteps the bounds set by the CWA and Our Children’s
Earth, I respectfully dissent.
