                   United States Court of Appeals
                            FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT




No. 23-5076                                                    September Term, 2023
                                                               FILED ON: JUNE 28, 2024

SAULT STE. MARIE TRIBE OF CHIPPEWA INDIANS,
                   APPELLANT

v.

DEBRA A. HAALAND, SECRETARY, UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ET AL.,
                   APPELLEES


                           Appeal from the United States District Court
                                   for the District of Columbia
                                       (No. 1:18-cv-02035)


       Before: WILKINS, RAO, and PAN, Circuit Judges.

                                        JUDGMENT

        This case was considered on the record from the United States District Court for the District
of Columbia and the briefs and arguments of the parties. The court has accorded the issues full
consideration and determined that they do not warrant a published opinion. See D.C. Cir. R. 36(d).
For the reasons stated below, it is:

     ORDERED that the judgment of the district court, entered on March 6, 2023, is
AFFIRMED.

                                             *   *    *

        The Sault Ste. Marie Tribe of Chippewa Indians (“the Tribe”) purchased a parcel of land
near Detroit, Michigan. In 2014, the Tribe asked the Department of the Interior (“DOI”) to take
the land into trust under a provision of the Michigan Indian Land Claims Settlement Act (“the
Michigan Act”), in order to advance the Tribe’s ambition of operating a casino on the land. The
DOI denied the Tribe’s land-into-trust application because the land purchase did not meet certain
statutory requirements. The Tribe filed suit, seeking review under the Administrative Procedure
Act (“APA”). The district court initially granted summary judgment in favor of the Tribe, but we
reversed and remanded. See Sault Ste. Marie Tribe of Chippewa Indians v. Haaland (Sault I), 25
F.4th 12, 16, 24 (D.C. Cir. 2022). On remand, the primary issue was whether the Tribe’s land
purchase could be considered an expenditure “for educational, social welfare, health, cultural, or
charitable purposes which benefit the members of the [Tribe]” — if so, the United States would
be required to take the land into trust under Section 108(c) of the Michigan Act. The district court
held that purchasing land to build a casino was not covered by the statute and granted summary
judgment in favor of the DOI. The Tribe appealed. Because we agree with the DOI and the district
court that the Tribe’s intention to dedicate a small sliver of the proposed casino’s hypothetical
profit to promoting the welfare of tribal members is insufficient to make the land purchase a
qualifying expenditure, we affirm the judgment of the district court.

                                                 I.

                                                 A.

        The factual background and the procedural history of this case are set forth in our prior
opinion. See Sault I, 25 F.4th at 15–17. Accordingly, we provide only an abbreviated overview
of the relevant statutory scheme, and briefly summarize the facts relevant to the instant appeal.

        Congress passed the Michigan Act in 1997 to remedy historic injustice resulting from
unconscionable treaties between certain Indian tribes and the United States government. See
Sault I, 25 F.4th at 15; Michigan Act, Pub. L. No. 105-143, 111 Stat. 2652 (1997). As relevant
here, the statute addressed an 1836 Treaty under which the Tribe, and other related tribes, ceded
much of their ancestral land in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan to the federal government. See
Sault I, 25 F.4th at 15. More than a century later, in 1946, Congress created the Indian Claims
Commission to settle land claims against the United States. See Act of Aug. 13, 1946, Pub. L. No.
79-726, 60 Stat. 1049, 1050. The Commission determined that “the [1836] Treaty was
unconscionable and ordered the United States to pay these tribes more than $10 million.” Sault I,
25 F.4th at 15. After several decades in which the tribes were unsuccessful in negotiating a way
to divide the Commission’s award amongst themselves, Congress passed the Michigan Act to
“provide[] for the distribution of the [$10 million in] judgment funds among the tribes with
separate sections of the statute governing each tribe’s use of its judgment funds.” Id.

          Section 108 of the Michigan Act sets forth how the judgment funds for the Sault Tribe
should be used and administered. It directs the Tribe’s Board of Directors to “establish a trust fund
. . . [to] be known as the ‘Self-Sufficiency Fund’” to receive settlement funds distributed by the
Michigan Act. Michigan Act § 108(a)(1). Moreover, Section 108(b) describes how the Tribe may
use the Fund’s principal, while Section 108(c) governs the Tribe’s expenditure of the Fund’s
“interest and other investment income.” Id. §§ 108(b), (c).

        Specifically, Section 108(b) provides that Fund principal “shall be used exclusively for,”
among other things, “investments or expenditures which the board of directors determines . . . are
reasonably related to . . . economic development beneficial to the tribe; or . . . are otherwise
financially beneficial to the tribe and its members.” Michigan Act § 108(b)(1). Section 108(c),
on the other hand, authorizes the Board to spend Fund interest only for certain enumerated uses,
including “for educational, social welfare, health, cultural, or charitable purposes which benefit”
the Tribe’s members. Id. § 108(c)(4). Another approved use is “for consolidation or enhancement
of tribal lands.” Id. § 108(c)(5). Lastly, Section 108(f) mandates that “[a]ny lands acquired using
amounts from interest or other income of the Self-Sufficiency Fund shall be held in trust by the

                                                 2
Secretary [of the Interior] for the benefit of the tribe.” Id. § 108(f). In other words, if the Tribe
acquires land with the Fund’s interest for one of the permissible uses under Section 108(c), the
DOI is obligated to hold that land in trust; but the agency must independently “verify that the land
was legitimately acquired with Fund interest for the limited uses detailed in Section 108(c).”
Sault I, 25 F.4th at 18.

       Land taken into trust by the Secretary of the Interior “might qualify” under the Indian
Gaming Regulatory Act (“IGRA”) for the operation of a casino. See Sault I, 25 F.4th at 18 & n.3
(explaining that “the government’s trust decision implicates whether the Tribe can conduct gaming
under IGRA”). IGRA, enacted in 1988, provides that Indian tribes in states that allow gaming may
operate casinos on specific categories of “Indian lands.” 25 U.S.C. § 2710(d)(1). IGRA generally
prohibits most casino gaming activities on off-reservation lands taken into trust after October 17,
1988, except under specific exceptional circumstances. See id. §§ 2719(a)–(b); 25 C.F.R. pts.
291–92. One such exception allows gaming on “lands [that] are taken into trust as part of . . . a
settlement of a land claim.” 25 U.S.C. § 2719(b)(1)(B)(i).

        Separately, IGRA provides that casinos may operate on trust lands only “in conformance
with a Tribal-State compact entered into by the Indian tribe and the State” that is approved by the
Secretary of the Interior. 25 U.S.C. §§ 2710(d)(1)(C), (d)(3)(B); see 25 C.F.R. pt. 293. The Sault
Tribe’s Tribal-State compact states that “[a]n application to take land in trust for gaming purposes
pursuant to § 20 of IGRA (25 U.S.C. § 2719) shall not be submitted to the Secretary of the Interior
in the absence of a prior written” revenue-sharing agreement with the other tribes. J.A. 446.

                                                 B.

         The Sault Tribe is the largest Indian tribe east of the Mississippi River, with more than
40,000 members who descend from a group of Chippewa bands that historically occupied the
Upper Peninsula of Michigan. Sault I, 25 F.4th at 15. In 2012, the Tribe took steps to purchase a
parcel of land, known as the “Sibley Parcel,” in the Lower Peninsula of Michigan, near Detroit.
See id. at 16. 1 The Tribe’s Board passed a Tribal Resolution stating that the Tribe would “seek to
have those lands placed into mandatory trust pursuant to section[s] 108 (c) and (f) of the
[Michigan] Act, and establish its legal right to construct and operate a casino gaming enterprise
on those lands.” J.A. 119 (emphasis added). The Resolution further stated that the Tribe would
devote five percent of any income from the casino to tribal welfare: three percent would benefit
tribal elders and two percent would create a college scholarship program. It also earmarked ten
percent of the casino’s income to be deposited in the Self-Sufficiency Fund as an addition to the
principal of the Fund.

         Pursuant to its Resolution, in June 2014, the Tribe submitted a “land-into-trust application”
to the DOI, stating that it intended to use interest or other income from the Self-Sufficiency Fund,
pursuant to the Michigan Act, to purchase the Sibley Parcel. The Tribe relied on two alternative
justifications for using Trust interest to purchase the Sibley Parcel, claiming that the land would

1
     Along with the Sibley Parcel, the Tribe also sought to acquire land in Michigan’s Lower
Peninsula near Lansing. The district court, however, found that the Tribe’s claims with respect to
the Lansing Parcel were moot based on later developments. That parcel is not at issue on appeal.
                                               3
be used (1) for the “consolidation or enhancement of tribal lands,” under Section 108(c)(5) of the
Michigan Act; and (2) “for educational, social welfare, health, cultural, or charitable purposes”
benefitting Tribal members, under Section 108(c)(4). J.A. 477–80. The land-into-trust application
stated that the “[t]he acquisition of the Parcel will provide a land base for the thousands of tribal
members who live in [the area], will facilitate the delivery of services to those tribal members, will
generate revenues necessary for the provision of social services, and will create hundreds of jobs
for those members.” Id. at 480. Over the course of the next three years, the DOI requested
supplemental information from the Tribe regarding the land acquisition, and the Tribe responded
by submitting additional arguments and affidavits.

        In January 2017, the DOI made an interim determination that there was insufficient
evidence that acquisition of the Sibley Parcel would satisfy Section 108(c)(4) or (5) of the
Michigan Act. But the DOI stated that it would “keep the Applications open” to allow the Tribe
to present more evidence about how its proposal satisfied the statute’s requirements. J.A. 745.
The Tribe submitted no additional evidence to support its land-into-trust application. Thereafter,
in July 2017, the DOI sent a final decision letter to the Tribe denying the application. The letter
incorporated the findings of the January 2017 interim determination and declined to revisit the
DOI’s rejection of the Tribe’s claims. Specifically, it stated that “[t]he Tribe bears the burden of
demonstrating that it has met [the Michigan Act’s] requirements for mandatory land-into-trust
acquisitions,” and that the Tribe “made no such demonstration even after being offered the
additional opportunity to do so [after] the [interim determination].” Id. at 752.

        The Tribe filed suit in the district court, alleging violations of the APA. In March 2020,
the district court granted summary judgment to the Tribe, holding that the DOI’s rejection of the
Tribe’s land-into-trust application was contrary to law because (1) the Michigan Act imposes a
mandatory duty to grant such an application when a Tribe purchases land with Fund interest; and
(2) the acquisition of the Sibley Parcel qualified as an “enhancement of tribal lands” under Section
108(c)(5). See Sault I, 25 F.4th at 14. The district court expressly reserved the question whether
the Tribe’s land-into-trust application also satisfied Section 108(c)(4). We reversed, concluding
that, under the plain meaning of the Michigan Act, the DOI has independent authority to verify
that the Tribe’s acquisition of land with Fund interest is “consistent with the limited uses for such
interest in Section 108(c).” Id. We further held that the Tribe’s purchase of the Sibley Parcel did
not qualify as an “enhancement of tribal lands” because it did not “improve the quality or value of
the Tribe’s existing lands.” Id. at 14–15 (emphasis added). Because the district court had not yet
addressed the Tribe’s alternative argument — that the land purchase qualified as an expenditure
“for educational, social welfare, health, cultural, or charitable purposes” — we remanded for
further proceedings.

         On remand to the district court, the parties filed cross-motions for summary judgment on
the Tribe’s remaining claim that the purchase of the Sibley Parcel fulfilled an “educational, social
welfare, health, cultural, or charitable purpose[]” that benefits the Tribe’s members. This time, the
district court granted summary judgment in the DOI’s favor. See Sault Ste. Marie Tribe of
Chippewa Indians v. Haaland, 659 F. Supp. 3d 33 (D.D.C. 2023). The court concluded that
Section 108(c)(4)’s meaning is “clear” and that its statutory text does not encompass an
expenditure “to purchase land to build a casino and devote a sliver of its income to social welfare.”
See id. at 42–48. Indeed, the court stated, the Tribe’s interpretation “could sweep just about any
                                                  4
purchase into § 108(c)(4)’s ambit so long as a cent it generates eventually furthers education,
health, culture, or charity.” Id. at 45. The court further held that the DOI did not act arbitrarily
and capriciously in rejecting the Tribe’s arguments. Id. at 48. The Tribe filed a timely appeal.
We have jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1291.

                                                  II.

         We review the district court’s grant of summary judgment de novo under the APA.
Baystate Franklin Med. Ctr. v. Azar, 950 F.3d 84, 88–89 (D.C. Cir. 2020). We set aside an agency
action that is “arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with
law.” 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A). An agency’s action is contrary to law “[i]n the absence of statutory
authorization for its act.” Hikvision USA, Inc. v. FCC, 97 F.4th 938, 944 (D.C. Cir. 2024) (quoting
Atlantic City Elec. Co. v. FERC, 295 F.3d 1, 8 (D.C. Cir. 2002)). And an agency’s action is
arbitrary and capricious if the agency has “entirely failed to consider an important aspect of the
problem, [or] offered an explanation for its decision that runs counter to the evidence before [it].”
Baystate, 950 F.3d at 89 (second alteration in original) (quoting Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Ass’n of U.S.,
Inc. v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co., 463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983)). But the “scope of review under
the ‘arbitrary and capricious’ standard is narrow and a court is not to substitute its judgment for
that of the agency.” Id. (quoting State Farm, 463 U.S. at 43).

                                                 III.

         The Tribe takes issue with two aspects of the DOI’s denial of its land-into-trust application.
First, the Tribe argues that the DOI’s interpretation of Section 108(c)(4) was contrary to law.
According to the Tribe, its use of Fund interest to purchase land for a casino qualifies as an
expenditure for “educational, social welfare, health, cultural, or charitable purposes” because the
Tribe intends to use some of the casino’s profits to enhance the well-being of Tribal members.
Thus, the Tribe asserts, the DOI misinterpreted the statute by requiring a more direct relationship
between the funds expended and the requisite purpose. Second, the Tribe contends that even under
the DOI’s reading of Section 108(c)(4), the agency “arbitrarily failed to address evidence that the
Sibley purchase” directly served educational, social welfare, health, cultural, or charitable
purposes. Sault Br. 48 (capitalization altered throughout). We reject both arguments in turn.

                                                  A.

        Section 108(c)(4) authorizes the Board of the Sault Tribe to spend Fund interest “for
educational, social welfare, health, cultural, or charitable purposes which benefit” the Tribe’s
members. Michigan Act § 108(c)(4). The Tribe seeks to persuade us that acquiring land to operate
a casino is an approved use under this subsection. According to the Tribe, its purchase of the
Sibley Parcel was “designed to ‘enable the Tribe to address the health, educational, welfare, and
cultural needs of’ tribal members in the Upper and Lower Peninsula, by ‘generat[ing] revenues
necessary for the provision of social services’ through Indian gaming.” Sault Br. 26 (alteration in
original) (quoting J.A. 479–80). In other words, the Tribe argues that buying land to construct a
casino is acceptable because the profits from the casino will help the Tribe accomplish “its
objective, goal, or end” of meeting “the unmet social welfare, cultural, health, charitable, and
educational needs of the Tribe.” Id. at 26–27. We are unconvinced by the Tribe’s argument

                                                  5
because its proposal to channel five percent of casino profits into approved uses is too attenuated
and too uncertain to meet the requirements of Section 108(c)(4).

        First, the connection between the expended Fund income and the Section 108(c)(4) purpose
is remote. Specifically, the Tribe used Trust income to buy land, on which it seeks to build a
casino, from which it hopes to make a profit, of which it intends to devote a small portion to
qualifying purposes. Although the Tribe now represents that “all net gaming revenues will [] be
dedicated to advancing tribal welfare,” see Sault Br. 22, its initial Tribal Resolution allocated only
five percent to the welfare of certain Tribe members, see J.A. 121. Thus, even if we assume that
the casino will be built and will be profitable, the record supports only a small allotment of the
hypothetical profits to promote “social welfare.” And that falls far short of demonstrating an
“educational, social welfare, health, cultural, or charitable purpose[]” for the funds expended to
purchase land. We need not determine whether an investment by the Tribe in an economic venture
that devoted all or substantially all of its profits to tribal welfare might qualify as an approved
expenditure under Section 108(c)(4). The arrangement contemplated by the Tribe in this instance
is plainly insufficient.

         Second, the Tribe faces significant regulatory and legal uncertainty in its quest to build a
casino on the Sibley Parcel, further weakening its claim that its plan for the land ultimately will
fulfill an approved statutory purpose. IGRA generally prohibits tribes from conducting casino
gaming activities on off-reservation lands, such as certain Indian lands held in trust (and placed in
trust after October 17, 1988). See 25 U.S.C. § 2719(a). Such gaming may occur only under
specified circumstances, including when “lands are taken into trust as part of . . . a settlement of a
land claim.” Id. § 2719(b)(1)(B)(i). Here, the applicability of that exception is unclear because
the parties dispute whether the Michigan Act settled any land claims or merely distributed
judgment funds. And in any event, the Tribe concedes that “satisfying the exception requires
additional steps.” Reply Br. 38.

        Moreover, IGRA provides that tribes may operate casinos “in conformance with a Tribal-
State compact entered into by the Indian tribe and the State.” 25 U.S.C. §§ 2710(d)(1)(C),
(d)(3)(B). In this instance, the Michigan compact requires the Tribe to have a written revenue-
sharing agreement with other Michigan tribes before applying for gaming authorization under
Section 20 of IGRA. 2 But the Tribe has not entered any such revenue-sharing agreement with
other tribes pertaining to the proposed casino on the Sibley Parcel. Thus, it is far from certain that
the DOI would approve the Tribe’s application to operate a casino on the Sibley Parcel, even if the
land were taken into trust. This uncertainty further weakens the Tribe’s claim that its land
acquisition ultimately will fulfill an approved statutory purpose. Indeed, if no casino is built, there
will be no profit to spend on “educational, social welfare, health, cultural, or charitable purposes.”




2
    The parties in this case debate whether the Michigan compact applies to the Tribe’s land
acquisition under the Michigan Act. Regardless of how that disagreement is resolved, the Sault
Tribe’s prospects for securing approval of its plan to run a casino on the Sibley Parcel are highly
uncertain.
                                                 6
                                                  B.

         The Tribe alternatively argues that the DOI arbitrarily and capriciously failed to consider
evidence in the record that the Tribe acquired the Sibley Parcel to directly support “educational,
social welfare, health, cultural, or charitable purposes.” In particular, the Tribe asserts that it made
the land purchase to “(1) secure a land base to provide social services to the Tribe’s large, yet
unserved, downstate population and (2) create jobs for thousands of nearby tribal members.” Sault
Br. 48–49. The Tribe points to facts from its land-into-trust application and an affidavit from its
Tribal Registrar to support those claims. The land-into-trust application explained that the Sibley
Parcel would provide “a geographic base to enable the Tribe to address the health, educational,
welfare, and cultural needs of [its] members” in the Lower Peninsula, J.A. 479; while the affidavit
averred that the Tribe “will never be able to provide meaningful employment opportunities or
services to [a] substantial component of its population base without securing nearby trust land,”
id. at 555. According to the Tribe, the DOI “did not even acknowledge” the cited evidence when
it rejected the Tribe’s application, and instead focused on the “sole reason” that generating casino
profits was too attenuated. Sault Br. 51.

         We are unpersuaded by the Tribe’s arguments for several reasons. First, the DOI did
address the Tribe’s claim that the purchase of the Sibley Parcel was to secure a land base for social
services and to create jobs for nearby tribal members: The agency analyzed this claim under its
consideration of the Tribe’s Section 108(c)(5) arguments, finding that the Tribe failed to “provid[e]
supporting documentation” for its proposition that “acquisition of the Parcels will generate revenue
to allow for development of its existing land in the Lower Peninsula, which will ‘provide
employment and tribal services’ to its members nearby.” J.A. 752. It concluded that “the Tribe
fails to cite any evidence” for this contention. Id. As the Tribe acknowledges on appeal, we can
“[a]ssum[e]” that the DOI “intended these explanations to carry over to §108(c)(4),” Sault Br. 53,
because the basic factual premise — that the Sault’s land acquisition will serve as a land base to
generate revenue and create jobs — applies equally to either subsection of Section 108(c).

        Second, the DOI’s rejection of the Tribe’s arguments was reasonable: The Tribe’s
“evidence” consisted of conclusory statements about its intentions for the land and did not include
any concrete plans to provide specific services to its members. Lastly, we note that the Tribe did
not take advantage of multiple opportunities to provide additional evidence to support its land-
into-trust application and to answer the DOI’s questions about the land purchase. Most
significantly, on January 19, 2017, when the DOI issued its interim determination denying the
Tribe’s application, the agency stated that it would “keep the Applications open” to allow the Tribe
to present more evidence. J.A. 745. Yet the Tribe submitted no additional evidence after the
interim determination.

                                              *    *    *

       For the foregoing reasons, we affirm the judgment of the district court.

        Pursuant to D.C. Circuit Rule 36, this disposition will not be published. The Clerk is
directed to withhold issuance of the mandate until seven days after resolution of any timely petition
for rehearing or petition for rehearing en banc. See Fed. R. App. P. 41(b); D.C. Cir. R. 41(a)(1).

                                                   7
Per Curiam


              FOR THE COURT:
              Mark J. Langer, Clerk

        BY:   /s/
              Daniel J. Reidy
              Deputy Clerk




    8
