                   United States Court of Appeals
                            FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT




No. 25-1003                                                   September Term, 2025
                                                              FILED ON: AUGUST 4, 2026

HEROES TECHNOLOGY (US) LLC
D/B/A SNUGGLE ME ORGANIC,
                         PETITIONER

v.

CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION,
                        RESPONDENT


                           On Petition for Review of a Final Decision
                          of the Consumer Product Safety Commission


       Before: SRINIVASAN, Chief Judge, and WILKINS and RAO, Circuit Judges.

                                        JUDGMENT

       The case was considered on the record compiled before the Consumer Product Safety
Commission, and on the briefs and oral argument of the parties. The Court has afforded the issues
full consideration and determined that they do not warrant a published opinion.
See Fed. R. App. P. 36; D.C. Cir. R. 36(d). It is hereby:
       ORDERED and ADJUDGED that the petition for review be DENIED.

                                           *     *    *

     The agency action before us is a Final Rule that Respondent, Consumer Product Safety
Commission (“CPSC” or “Commission”), issued to manufacturers, distributors, and retailers of
infant support cushions. Safety Standard for Infant Support Cushions, 89 Fed. Reg. 87467
(Nov. 4, 2024). The Final Rule newly designates infant support cushions as “durable infant or
toddler products,” and imposes a mandatory standard establishing “performance, testing, labeling,
and instructional literature requirements” on regulated entities to ensure safe uses of these
products. Id. at 87468.

    Petitioner, Heroes Technology (“Heroes”), designs, manufactures, and sells Snuggle Me infant
loungers, which are regulated by the Final Rule at issue in this case. The Snuggle Me infant
lounger is “intended for use for infants up to 1 year,” see Petitioner’s Br. at 35, and incorporates
several design features, including four-inch-high side walls along with an “unpadded, suspended
center sling” that work together to “gently hold a baby in the supine position” and “creat[e] the
sensation of being hugged.” See J.A. 431–32, J.A. 435.

    Heroes contends that the Final Rule should be vacated because it exceeds CPSC’s statutory
authority under Section 104 of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, codified
at 15 U.S.C. § 2056a, and is arbitrary and capricious under the Administrative Procedure Act
(“APA”), 5 U.S.C. § 706(2), as it is not reasonably explained and is unmoored from the factual
record before the agency. CPSC counters that the Final Rule was consonant with its statutory
authority, reasoned, and supported by substantial evidence.

     For the reasons explained herein, we hold that the Final Rule fell within the scope of CPSC’s
statutory authority and was neither arbitrary nor capricious.

                                                 I.

     Congress passed the Consumer Product Safety Act (“CPSA”) in 1972 to “protect the public
against unreasonable risks of injury associated with consumer products[.]”
15 U.S.C. § 2051(b)(1). The CPSA established CPSC and conferred authority upon the agency
to promulgate consumer safety standards to ensure consumers’ well-being. Id. §§ 2051, 2053(a),
2056(a). Thirty-six years later, Congress amended the CPSA in the Consumer Product Safety
Improvement Act of 2008 (“CPSIA”) and furnished CPSC with a suite of regulatory and
enforcement tools to, among other things, evaluate “the effectiveness of any voluntary consumer
product safety standards for durable infant or toddler products” and in instances where they fall
short, issue “more stringent” mandatory standards to “further reduce the risk of injury associated
with such products.” Id. § 2056a(b)(1). These standards apply to a diverse array of twelve
“durable infant or toddler product[s]” preidentified by Congress. Id. § 2056a(f)(2).

     CPSC leveraged its statutory authority to address safety concerns tied to infant support
cushions. To that end, CPSC published a notice of proposed rulemaking on January 16, 2024, and
conveyed its intention to designate infant support cushions as “durable infant or toddler products”
subject to Section 2056a’s “more stringent” procedural requirements. Safety Standard for Infant
Support Cushions, 89 Fed. Reg. 2530 (Jan. 16, 2024). The proposed change was prompted by an
analysis of nearly twelve years of historical data involving at least 79 infant fatalities and more
than 100 nonfatal incidents or reports associated with infant support cushions, and if fully pursued,
would result in mandatory performance and labeling requirements for these products. Id.
Following the close of the notice-and-comment period, CPSC issued its Final Rule consistent with
the proposed rule and without significant modification. 89 Fed. Reg. at 87467–69. No voluntary
standards existed for infant support cushions at the time the Final Rule was promulgated.
Id. at 87480.

    Heroes seeks judicial review of the Final Rule.                 We have jurisdiction under
15 U.S.C. § 2056a(b)(3).



                                                 2
                                                 II.
     Petitioner’s principal contention is that the Final Rule exceeds CPSC’s statutory authority
under Section 2056a. Heroes asserts that infant support cushions are not durable infant or toddler
products because they serve purposes functionally distinct from—and bearing no resemblance to—
those products enumerated under the statute. To bolster that claim, Heroes undertakes extensive
parsing of the statute’s terms to demonstrate infant support cushions’ dissimilarity to those already
catalogued under Section 2056a(f)(2). But we are unpersuaded.

                                                 A.

     We review issues of statutory interpretation under the APA de novo. See Jazz Pharms., Inc.
v. Kennedy, 141 F.4th 254, 261 (D.C. Cir. 2025). Our starting point is grounded in “the language
employed by Congress and the assumption that the ordinary meaning of that language accurately
expresses the legislative purpose.” United States v. Albertini, 472 U.S. 675, 680 (1985) (citation
modified). Applying “the traditional tools of statutory construction,” Kimball Wind, LLC
v. Fed. Energy Regul. Comm’n, 140 F.4th 496, 499 (D.C. Cir. 2025) (citation modified), we
“exercise independent judgment” to determine the “single, best meaning” of a disputed statute.
Loper Bright Enters. v. Raimondo, 603 U.S. 369, 394, 400 (2024). It should not be overlooked
that “[s]tatutory construction … is a holistic endeavor,” United Sav. Ass’n v. Timbers of Inwood
Forest Assocs., 484 U.S. 365, 371 (1988), and that the entire statute must be considered as a whole
so as “not to give undue effect to particular words or clauses[.]” Costanzo v. Tillinghast,
287 U.S. 341, 345 (1932) (citation omitted).

     Petitioner’s statutory authority argument rests on a single proposition: the Final Rule only
survives if infant support cushions qualify as “durable products.” Heroes offers several dictionary
definitions to extract a favorable meaning of the term that would justify infant support cushions’
exclusion from Section 2056a’s focus on “durable infant or toddler products.” Those efforts prove
unavailing.

     Our inquiry begins with the statutory text. Section 2056a does not define the term “durable
product.” Lacking a statutory definition, “we turn to the phrase’s plain meaning at the time of
enactment.” Tanzin v. Tanvir, 592 U.S. 43, 48 (2020); see also Fed. Commc’ns Comm’n
v. AT & T Inc., 562 U.S. 397, 403 (2011) (“When a statute does not define a term, we typically
give the phrase its ordinary meaning.”) (citation modified). As commonly used, “durable” means
“able to exist for a long time without significant deterioration,” see Durable, MERRIAM-
WEBSTER’S COLLEGIATE DICTIONARY (2009), and “product” means “something (as a service) that
is marketed or sold as a commodity.” Id. at Product. Construed together, all Congress intended
to convey when it referred to a “durable product” in Section 2056a was that the product could
survive extended use without significant wear, damage, or decline. The plain text of the statute
does not identify any additional criteria to consider when assessing whether a product should be
regarded as “durable.” Applying this understanding, infant support cushions qualify as a “durable
product”: they are designed to hold an infant in a supported position and are frequently reused
across multiple children, giving them a useful life of several years. J.A. 609.


                                                 3
     Heroes also insists that infant support cushions are more fittingly characterized as textiles—
which are commonly understood to be nondurable products—and invites this Court to focus on
the product’s material composition as the touchstone for that classification. We decline.

     Petitioner fails to adduce any express language in Section 2056a that conditions the
classification of “durable infant or toddler products” based on their material composition. Nor
does Section 2056a impose any obligation on CPSC to march through a prescribed series of steps,
which according to Heroes, would require the agency to consult the listed “durable infant or toddler
product[s]” already listed under Section 2056a(f)(2), compare unlisted products against that list,
and only thereafter designate unlisted products as a “durable infant or toddler product.” In our
view, Section 2056a targets not material composition, but rather function, which here bears on the
product’s properties, how it is used and for what purpose, and whether safety standards can
safeguard risks associated with those uses. Our conclusion that Section 2056a(f) is concerned with
function follows from the statutory text, which states that a “durable infant or toddler product” is
“a durable product intended for use, or that may be reasonably expected to be used, by children
under the age of 5 years.” 15 U.S.C. § 2056a(f)(1). In fact, the listed products—cribs, high chairs,
play yards, strollers, bassinets, and toddler beds—are constructed from varying materials but are
similar in their function: they support, restrain, or contain an infant or toddler during sustained use
over time. Infant support cushions also fit that description.

     The canon of noscitur a sociis—that a term “is known by the company it keeps,”
Yates v. United States, 574 U.S. 528, 543 (2015)—confirms what the plain text already
suggests. The products Congress enumerated—cribs, high chairs, play yards, strollers, bassinets,
and toddler beds—share two characteristics: they are designed to support, restrain, or contain an
infant or toddler, and they are built to withstand sustained use over time, often for multiple
children. Infant support cushions share both features. Like a bassinet or crib, an infant support
cushion is designed to hold an infant in a supported position. And as the record reflects, these
cushions are frequently reused among multiple children, giving them a useful life of several
years. See J.A. 609. The listed products thus illuminate rather than foreclose the conclusion that
infant support cushions are durable—they are precisely the kind of product Congress had in mind.

     Even if the plain meaning of “durable product” in Section 2056a(f) was not determinative of
CPSC’s statutory authority, the statute’s use of the term “includes” indicates that the twelve
“durable infant or toddler product[s]” enumerated by Congress was not meant to be exhaustive.
The list was meant to highlight examples of “durable infant or toddler product[s],” rather than
present a closed list of them. See Burgess v. United States, 553 U.S. 124, 131 n.3 (2008)
(“The word ‘includes’ is usually a term of enlargement, and not of limitation.”) (citation modified);
see also Dong v. Smithsonian Inst., 125 F.3d 877, 880 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (“We recognize, of course,
that the word ‘includes’ normally does not introduce an exhaustive list but merely sets out
examples of some ‘general principle.’”) (citation omitted). To read the statute otherwise would
undermine the significance of promulgating safety standards that keep pace with a rapidly
changing marketplace and contravene CPSC’s statutory charge “to protect the public against
unreasonable risks of injury associated with consumer products,” “assist consumers in evaluating
the comparative safety of consumer products,” “develop uniform safety standards for consumer


                                                  4
products,” and “promote research and investigation into the causes and prevention of product-
related deaths, illnesses, and injuries.” 15 U.S.C. § 2051(b).

    In sum, we conclude that CPSC did not exceed its statutory authority when designating infant
support cushions “durable infant or toddler products.”

                                                   B.
     Having determined that Section 2056a does not preclude CPSC from exercising its authority
to designate infant support cushions “durable infant or toddler products,” we consider next whether
the Final Rule was arbitrary and capricious.

     A reviewing court must “hold unlawful and set aside final agency action that is ‘arbitrary,
capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law.’” Radio Commc’ns
Corp. v. Fed. Commc’ns Comm’n, 141 F.4th 243, 248 (D.C. Cir. 2025)
(quoting 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A)). Our review is both deferential and narrow: to determine whether
an administrative rule is arbitrary and capricious, we ask whether CPSC “examine[d] the relevant
data and articulate[d] a satisfactory explanation for its action including a rational connection
between the facts found and the choice made.” Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Ass’n v. State Farm Mut. Auto.
Ins. Co., 463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983) (citation modified). The party challenging a final agency action
bears the burden of proving that the decision was arbitrary and capricious. Pierce v. Sec. & Exch.
Comm’n, 786 F.3d 1027, 1035 (D.C. Cir. 2015).

    Heroes contends that CPSC engaged in arbitrary and capricious rulemaking by failing to
consider whether previously issued regulations aimed at infant sleep products might have
addressed the agency’s concerns with infant support cushions. See Safety Standard for Infant Sleep
Products, 86 Fed. Reg. 33022 (Jun. 23, 2021).

     But infant support cushions are not coextensive with the broader infant sleep product category.
These products are functionally different and present their own array of characteristics that depend
on their own usage patterns. CPSC clarified as much when similar comments were raised during
the rulemaking process. The agency explained two points on that front: first, that “[t]he scope of
[the Final Rule] includes products that are not subject to the infant sleep products rule, but that still
present a risk of injury or death to infants,” and second, “[i]nfant support cushions do not meet the
definition of infant sleep products because they are not marketed or intended to provide sleeping
accommodations.” 89 Fed. Reg. at 87471. Those reasons “cogently explain why [CPSC] …
exercised its discretion,” see State Farm, 463 U.S. at 48–49, and chose to address safety concerns
associated with infant support cushions through the Final Rule. The requirement precluding
arbitrary and capricious agency action simply demands that “the agency adequately explain its
result and respond to relevant and significant public comments.” Public Citizen, Inc., v. Fed.
Aviation Admin., 988 F.2d 186, 197 (D.C. Cir. 1993) (citation modified). So it is the case here.

     That said, reasoned decision-making calls for the agency to consider important aspects of the
problem, “examine the relevant data[,] and articulate a satisfactory explanation for its action.”
State Farm, 463 U.S. at 43. And here, CPSC did so accordingly.

                                                   5
      To start, CPSC construed Section 2056a as requiring it to “examine and assess the
effectiveness of voluntary consumer product safety standards for durable infant or toddler
products” and “promulgate standards for all categories of durable infant or toddler products until
the Commission has promulgated standards for all such product categories.”
89 Fed. Reg. at 87467. CPSC recognized a continuing concern involving infant support cushions
that led to “at least 79 reported fatalities … from January 1, 2010, through December 31, 2022, as
well as 124 nonfatal incidents or reports involving these products within the same time period.”
Id.

     The Commission then scrutinized recent data, identifying that infant support cushions were
involved in “17 deaths in 2020, and a minimum of 17 more in 2021,” “[m]ore than 80 percent of
the known fatalities associated with these products involve infants three months old or younger,”
and “[i]n more than 60 percent of the fatalities, the official cause of death was asphyxia or probable
asphyxia.” Id. As required by the statute, CPSC “consulted with manufacturers, retailers, trade
organizations, laboratories, consumer advocacy groups, consultants, and the public” to develop the
Final Rule and acknowledged that until it was promulgated, “no voluntary or mandatory safety
standard for infant support cushions exist[ed] to address the hazards posed by” infant support
cushions. Id. at 87467–68.

     Before pressing on, the Commission considered several alternatives short of a mandatory
standard. For instance, CPSC “considered using a public education campaign that would result in
no regulatory impact on small businesses” but decided not to move forward with that approach
“given the education campaigns on safe sleep practices that CPSC and others have been
undertaking for years” had “little to no mitigation of the current rates of deaths and injuries from
infant support cushions.” Id. at 87486. The Commission further contemplated “allowing the
voluntary standards process additional time to develop a voluntary standard to address the hazards
posed by infant support cushions” but resolved not to take that course of action because of the
“[un]certainty that such a voluntary standard would be adopted, and [because] a potential voluntary
standard, if published, may not adequately address the identified hazards to infants.” Id. This is
what reasoned decision-making should look like. See State Farm, 463 U.S. at 42.

     Heroes’s final argument is that the Final Rule was arbitrary and capricious because CPSC
failed to account for the full universe of factors contributing to hazards posed by infant support
cushions. True, an agency must consider “significant and viable and obvious alternatives” but it
“is not required to consider all policy alternatives, or every alternative device and thought
conceivable by the mind of man.” MediNatura, Inc. v. Food & Drug Admin., 998 F.3d 931, 943–
944 (D.C. Cir. 2021) (citation modified). Consideration of empirical data at the level of granularity
Heroes suggests, see Petitioner’s Br. at 53–55, is simply not required under Section 2056a.
See Finnbin, LLC v. Consumer Prod. Safety Comm’n, 45 F.4th 127, 136 (D.C. Cir. 2022). Besides,
“[t]he APA imposes no general obligation on agencies to produce empirical evidence”; it suffices
that the agency has “justif[ied] its rule with a reasoned explanation.” Stilwell v. Off. of Thrift
Supervision, 569 F.3d 514, 519 (D.C. Cir. 2009). CPSC has met that standard.

    All told, the agency identified multiple safety concerns pertaining to infant support cushions,
undertook the requisite analyses to inform its concerns, and ultimately promulgated a rule pursuant

                                                  6
to its statutory authority that would effectively remedy these issues. The Final Rule was thus not
arbitrary and capricious.

                                           * * * *

    For the foregoing reasons, we deny Heroes’s petition for review. The Clerk is directed to
withhold issuance of the mandate until seven days after resolution of any timely petition for
rehearing or rehearing en banc. See Fed. R. App. P. 41(b); D.C. Cir. R. 41(a)(1).


                                          Per Curiam
                                                            FOR THE COURT:
                                                            Clifton B. Cislak, Clerk

                                                    BY:     /s/
                                                            Daniel J. Reidy
                                                            Deputy Clerk




                                                7
