                    FOR PUBLICATION

   UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
        FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

IDAHO CONSERVATION                          Nos. 23-593
LEAGUE; GREAT OLD BROADS                         24-1653
FOR WILDERNESS; IDAHO
                                             OPINION
RIVERS UNITED,

         Petitioners,
 v.
BONNEVILLE POWER
ADMINISTRATION,

                Respondent,
----------------------------------------
ALLIANCE OF WESTERN
ENERGY CONSUMERS;
NORTHWEST REQUIREMENTS
UTILITIES; PUBLIC POWER
COUNCIL INC,

              Intervenors.

          On Petitions for Review of Orders of the
             Bonneville Power Administration

          Argued and Submitted December 2, 2024
                 San Francisco, California

                      Filed June 26, 2025
2     IDAHO CONSERVATION LEAGUE V. BONNEVILLE POWER ADMIN.


    Before: Milan D. Smith, Jr., Eric D. Miller, and Patrick J.
                   Bumatay, Circuit Judges.

                    Opinion by Judge Miller


                          SUMMARY *


                     Northwest Power Act

   The panel denied petitions for review brought by
environmental groups led by the Idaho Conservation League
(ICL) challenging the decision of the Bonneville Power
Administration (BPA) to spend only about 10 percent of its
excess financial reserves on measures to protect fish and
wildlife.
     BPA is a federal agency responsible for marketing power
generated at federal hydroelectric facilities in the Columbia
River Basin. To maintain stable rates for the power it sells,
BPA holds financial reserves. When those reserves grow too
large, BPA is required to spend the excess money. ICL
argued that BPA’s decision to spend only about 10 percent
of its excess reserves on measures to protect fish and wildlife
transgressed its obligations under section 4(h)(11)(A) of the
Pacific Northwest Electric Power Planning and
Conservation Act, also known as the Northwest Power Act
(NWPA). Section 4(h)(11)(A) requires BPA to exercise its
responsibilities in a manner that provides equitable treatment


*
  This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
   IDAHO CONSERVATION LEAGUE V. BONNEVILLE POWER ADMIN.      3


for fish and wildlife, and to take into account “to the fullest
extent practicable” an environmental mitigation and
protection program adopted by the Northwest Power and
Conservation Council (Council).
    The panel held that the petitions for review were timely
because they were filed within 90 days of BPA’s final
allocation of its excess reserves. The cases were not moot
because, although BPA has distributed the funds from 2022
and perhaps from 2023 as well, BPA’s decisions about how
to allocate its excess reserves raised issues that were capable
of repetition while evading review.
    On the merits, the panel held that BPA’s allocation of its
excess financial reserves was not subject to the requirements
of section 4(h)(11)(A) of the NWPA. A separate provision
of the NWPA, section 4(h)(10), specifically addresses
BPA’s use of the excess financial reserve fund for fish and
wildlife, and does not require that fish and wildlife be put on
an equal footing with BPA’s power interests, nor does it
require that BPA prioritize the Council’s program “to the
fullest extent practicable.” Instead, section 4(h)(10)(A)
requires BPA to consider the Council’s plan and ensure that
spending under that section be “consistent with the
plan.” Because section 4(h)(11)(A)’s obligations do not
govern BPA’s choice of how to spend its excess reserves, the
panel denied the petitions for review.
4   IDAHO CONSERVATION LEAGUE V. BONNEVILLE POWER ADMIN.


                        COUNSEL

Andrew R. Missel (argued) and Laurence J. Lucas,
Advocates For The West, Boise, Idaho, for Petitioners.
J. Courtney Olive (argued), Special Assistant United States
Attorney; Richard A. Greene, Neal M. Gschwend, and B.
Tucker Miles, Attorneys; Timothy A. Johnson and Anne E.
Senters, Assistant General Counsels; Marcus H. Chong Tim,
General Counsel; Bonneville Power Administration,
Portland, Oregon; Sean E. Martin, Assistant United States
Attorney; Natalie K. Wright, United States Attorney; Office
of the United States Attorney, United States Department of
Justice, Portland, Oregon; for Respondent.
Sommer Moser, Davison Van Cleve PC, Portland, Oregon;
Matthew Schroettnig, Northwest Requirements Utilities,
Portland, Oregon; Thomas Creekpaum, Public Power
Council, Portland, Oregon; for Intervenors.
John Shurts, Northwest Power and Conservation Council,
Portland, Oregon, for Amicus Curiae Northwest Power and
Conservation Council.
   IDAHO CONSERVATION LEAGUE V. BONNEVILLE POWER ADMIN.     5


                         OPINION

MILLER, Circuit Judge:
    The Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) is a federal
agency responsible for marketing power generated at various
federal hydroelectric facilities in the Columbia River Basin.
To maintain stable rates for the power it sells, BPA holds
financial reserves. When those reserves grow too large, BPA
spends the excess money. In these petitions for review,
environmental groups led by the Idaho Conservation League
(ICL) challenge BPA’s decision to spend only about 10
percent of its excess reserves on measures to protect fish and
wildlife. ICL argues that BPA’s decision transgressed
BPA’s obligations under section 4(h)(11)(A) of the Pacific
Northwest Electric Power Planning and Conservation Act,
also known as the Northwest Power Act (NWPA), Pub. L.
No. 96-501, 94 Stat. 2697, 2710–11 (1980), 16 U.S.C.
§ 839b(h)(11)(A). We hold that those obligations do not
govern BPA’s choice of how to spend its excess reserves, so
we deny the petitions for review.
                              I
    Congress created BPA in 1937 to improve power
generation and transmission in the Pacific Northwest. See
generally 16 U.S.C. § 839; see also Northwest Env’t Def.
Ctr. v. Bonneville Power Admin., 477 F.3d 668, 672 (9th Cir.
2007). Today, BPA markets power from more than 30
facilities throughout the Columbia River Basin and is
responsible for roughly one-third of the power consumed in
the Pacific Northwest.
    Although the hydroelectric facilities in the Columbia
River Basin are important sources of electricity, they have
also contributed to the decline of what were once the largest
6   IDAHO CONSERVATION LEAGUE V. BONNEVILLE POWER ADMIN.


salmon runs in the world. See Northwest Res. Info. Ctr., Inc.
v. Northwest Power Plan. Council, 35 F.3d 1371, 1375–76
(9th Cir. 1994). In 1980, Congress enacted the NWPA to
balance BPA’s power-marketing objectives with
environmental considerations, including the conservation of
fish and wildlife. See 16 U.S.C. § 839b(h)(1)(A); Northwest
Res. Info. Ctr., 35 F.3d at 1377. The NWPA created the
Northwest Power and Conservation Council (Council), a
policymaking body comprising representatives of the state
governments of Idaho, Montana, Oregon, and Washington.
See Idaho Conservation League v. Bonneville Power Admin.
(ICL I), 83 F.4th 1182, 1186 (9th Cir. 2023). In consultation
with affected Indian tribes, the Council “develop[s] a policy
document, called the ‘Program,’ which lays out measures to
protect, mitigate, and enhance the fish and wildlife that are
affected by dam and reservoir projects within the Columbia
River Basin.” Id.; see 16 U.S.C. § 839b(h)(1)(A). The
NWPA tasks BPA with implementing that program and
undertaking its various responsibilities in a manner
consistent with the program. See id. § 839b(h)(10), (11).
    Unlike most federal agencies, BPA does not receive
annual appropriations from Congress. Rather, it uses power-
marketing revenues, which are deposited in the “BPA fund,”
to finance its expenses. See 16 U.S.C. § 838i(a). This
financing scheme requires BPA to set its power rates at a
level sufficient to cover its projected costs while also
providing “the lowest possible rates to consumers.” Id.
§ 838g. BPA does so through periodic proceedings known
as “rate cases.” See id. § 839e(i); ICL I, 83 F.4th at 1185.
    Varying market conditions sometimes make BPA’s
revenue and cost projections inaccurate. To ensure rate
stability, BPA attempts to maintain financial reserves in the
BPA fund as a cushion against unexpectedly low revenues
   IDAHO CONSERVATION LEAGUE V. BONNEVILLE POWER ADMIN.       7


or high costs. But when revenues are higher or costs are
lower than BPA anticipated, excess financial reserves
accumulate. When financial reserves cross a certain
threshold, BPA’s financial-reserves policy requires it to
spend them. A Reserve Distribution Clause (RDC), which
BPA adopts as part of the rate case, governs how those
excess reserves may be spent. During the period at issue
here, the RDC permitted BPA to use its excess reserves for
“debt reduction, incremental capital investment, rate
reduction through a Power Dividend Distribution . . . ,
distribution to customers, or any other Power-specific
purposes determined by the Administrator.” Before
spending excess reserves, BPA publishes the amount it
intends to spend, the allocation of that amount, and the data
underlying those decisions. It then must hold at least one
public meeting and provide an opportunity for comment on
its proposal before making a final decision.
    In both fiscal year 2022 and fiscal year 2023, the RDC
required BPA to spend excess reserves. For 2022, BPA
proposed allocating 70 percent of the excess reserves to its
customers through a power dividend distribution, 20 percent
to debt reduction, and 10 percent to addressing the
maintenance needs of existing assets designed to mitigate the
impact of hydroelectric power generation on fish and
wildlife. The proposed allocation in 2023 was similar: 58.0
percent for a power dividend distribution, 31.5 percent for
debt reduction, and 10.5 percent for fish and wildlife
mitigation assets. Across both years, BPA proposed
allocating a total of $80 million of its excess reserves to fish
and wildlife mitigation assets, from a pool of $785.4 million.
    In both years, BPA received comments on the proposed
allocation from interested parties, including States, tribes,
and environmental organizations. Many commenters,
8   IDAHO CONSERVATION LEAGUE V. BONNEVILLE POWER ADMIN.


including ICL, objected that the proposed allocation to fish
and wildlife mitigation efforts was too limited. As relevant
here, ICL argued that BPA had failed to comply with a pair
of statutory obligations in the NWPA. Those duties—
codified in section 4(h)(11)(A) of the NWPA—require BPA
and other agencies that are “responsible for managing,
operating, or regulating Federal or non-Federal hydroelectric
facilities located on the Columbia River or its tributaries” to
exercise their responsibilities “in a manner that provides
equitable treatment for . . . fish and wildlife” and to “tak[e]
into account at each relevant stage of decisionmaking
processes to the fullest extent practicable, the program
adopted by the Council.” 16 U.S.C. § 839b(h)(11)(A).
    BPA defended its proposed allocation on the ground that
section 4(h)(11)(A) of the NWPA does not apply to funding
decisions for fish and wildlife but only to the physical
operation and management of hydroelectric facilities. BPA
ultimately finalized its preliminary allocation.
    ICL filed two petitions for review: one challenging the
allocation of excess reserves for 2022 and another
challenging the allocation of excess reserves for 2023. See
16 U.S.C. § 839f(e).
                              II
    We begin by considering whether the petitions were
timely filed. The NWPA provides for judicial review of a
final action taken by BPA if a petition for review is “filed
within ninety days of the time such action or decision is
deemed final.” 16 U.S.C. § 839f(e)(5). ICL filed each
petition within 90 days of BPA’s allocation decisions, but
BPA contends that the “true nature” of the petitions is to
challenge final actions taken much earlier. See Puget Sound
Energy, Inc. v. United States, 310 F.3d 613, 621–22 (9th Cir.
   IDAHO CONSERVATION LEAGUE V. BONNEVILLE POWER ADMIN.       9


2002). BPA conceives of the challenges as either (1) to the
RDC itself or (2) to funding decisions that occurred even
further in the past. We disagree.
     ICL challenges BPA’s decisions to allocate only about
10 percent of its excess financial reserves in 2022 and 2023
to fish and wildlife mitigation efforts. BPA responds that
ICL’s claims relate “to how the RDC provision functions—
i.e., the criteria BPA would use when implementing that
provision of the rate schedule.” But as BPA concedes, the
RDC merely sets out permissible uses for excess financial
reserves; it does not require BPA to allocate any particular
amount to any particular use. Thus, the alleged underfunding
of fish and wildlife efforts of which ICL complains did not
materialize when the RDC was adopted. It happened later,
when the excess financial reserves were allocated in the
decisions that ICL now challenges.
   BPA’s alternative conception of ICL’s challenges is
similarly flawed. Contrary to BPA’s characterization, ICL is
not challenging what it believes to be the chronic
underfunding of fish and wildlife projects that occurred
many years ago. It is challenging BPA’s decision not to
spend more money now. In ICL’s view, spending more
money now is necessary to ameliorate the effects of chronic
underfunding, but that does not transform the petitions into
challenges to past underfunding.
    Because both petitions for review were filed within 90
days of BPA’s final allocation of its excess reserves, they
satisfy the statutory time limit. But they are arguably too late
in a different sense: As ICL concedes, BPA has now
distributed the funds from 2022, and perhaps (though it is
unclear from the parties’ briefing) from 2023 as well. That
raises the possibility that the cases are moot, and although
10 IDAHO CONSERVATION LEAGUE V. BONNEVILLE POWER ADMIN.


BPA does not raise a mootness objection, we must consider
the issue sua sponte because it affects our subject-matter
jurisdiction. See Demery v. Arpaio, 378 F.3d 1020, 1025 (9th
Cir. 2004).
    The cases are not moot because ICL’s challenges to
BPA’s decisions about how to allocate its excess reserves
raise issues that are capable of repetition while evading
review. See Turner v. Rogers, 564 U.S. 431, 439–40 (2011);
Alcoa, Inc. v. Bonneville Power Admin., 698 F.3d 774, 786
(9th Cir. 2012). That limited exception to mootness applies
when “(1) the challenged action [is] in its duration too short
to be fully litigated prior to its cessation or expiration, and
(2) there [is] a reasonable expectation that the same
complaining party [will] be subjected to the same action
again.” Turner, 564 U.S. at 439–40 (alterations in original)
(quoting Weinstein v. Bradford, 423 U.S. 147, 149 (1975)
(per curiam)).
    That test is satisfied here. First, because BPA’s
allocation of excess reserves covers only a single fiscal year,
its decisions have too short a duration to be fully litigated
before the reserves are distributed. The 2022 decision is
illustrative: BPA issued its final decision on January 6, 2023,
but by the time ICL filed its opening brief, the 2022 funds
had already been fully distributed. See Alcoa, 698 F.3d at
787 (“[A]s a practical matter a transaction set for a term of
17 months . . . would be likely to expire before our review
(let alone the Supreme Court’s) could be completed.”).
Second, ICL can reasonably be expected to be subject to the
same action again in the future. After ICL petitioned for
review of the 2022 decision, but before any adjudication of
the legality of that decision, BPA announced a 2023
allocation that was similar in relevant respects. The
repetitive nature of BPA’s actions demonstrates that ICL has
   IDAHO CONSERVATION LEAGUE V. BONNEVILLE POWER ADMIN. 11


a reasonable expectation of facing BPA’s allegedly illegal
conduct again. See id. We therefore conclude that the cases
are not moot.
                            III
    On the merits, the petitions turn on whether section
4(h)(11)(A) of the NWPA governs BPA’s decisions about
how to allocate excess reserves. That provision states:

       (A) The [BPA] Administrator and other
           Federal agencies responsible for
           managing, operating, or regulating
           Federal or non-Federal hydroelectric
           facilities located on the Columbia River
           or its tributaries shall—
              (i) exercise such responsibilities
              consistent with the purposes of this
              chapter and other applicable laws, to
              adequately protect, mitigate, and
              enhance fish and wildlife, including
              related spawning grounds and habitat,
              affected by such projects or facilities
              in a manner that provides equitable
              treatment for such fish and
              wildlife with the other purposes for
              which such system and facilities are
              managed and operated;
              (ii) exercise such responsibilities,
              taking into account at each relevant
              stage of decisionmaking processes to
              the fullest extent practicable, the
12 IDAHO CONSERVATION LEAGUE V. BONNEVILLE POWER ADMIN.


               program adopted by the Council
               under this subsection.

16 U.S.C. § 839b(h)(11)(A) (emphasis added). Section
4(h)(11)(A) thus imposes two requirements: an “obligation
to provide ‘equitable treatment’ for fish and wildlife,” and
an obligation “to ‘tak[e] into account’ the Council’s Program
‘at each relevant stage of decisionmaking processes to the
fullest extent practicable.’” ICL I, 83 F.4th at 1191
(alteration in original).
    BPA contends that those requirements apply only to
operational decisions “relating to physical water
management”—in other words, turning valves and throwing
switches. BPA emphasizes that section 4(h)(11)(A)(i) refers
to the “purposes for which such system and facilities are
managed and operated,” and it observes that the system and
facilities at issue are dams and reservoirs whose “purposes
depend on or involve, in some way, the physical storage or
movement of water.” ICL responds by pointing to the initial
clause of section 4(h)(11)(A), which imposes duties on BPA
“and other federal agencies responsible for managing,
operating, or regulating” the facilities in the Columbia River
Basin. It argues that those terms—especially “managing”—
are capacious enough to cover non-operational decisions,
including financial-management decisions such as the
allocation of excess reserves.
    In resolving that dispute, we do not read the words of
section 4(h)(11)(A) in a vacuum. To the contrary, “[i]t is a
fundamental canon of statutory construction that the words
of a statute must be read in their context and with a view to
their place in the overall statutory scheme.” Davis v.
Michigan Dep’t of Treasury, 489 U.S. 803, 809 (1989); see
also Brown v. Gardner, 513 U.S. 115, 118 (1994)
   IDAHO CONSERVATION LEAGUE V. BONNEVILLE POWER ADMIN. 13


(“Ambiguity is a creature not of definitional possibilities but
of statutory context.”). “We must thus interpret
§ 4(h)(11)(A) within the ‘overall structure and design’ of the
statute that Congress enacted.” ICL I, 83 F.4th at 1192
(quoting Chicken Ranch Rancheria of Me-Wuk Indians v.
California, 42 F.4th 1024, 1035 (9th Cir. 2022)).
    The text and structure of the NWPA persuade us that
section 4(h)(11)(A) does not apply to BPA’s decision about
how to allocate excess reserves. As we have explained,
BPA’s excess financial reserves accumulate in the BPA
fund. A separate provision of the NWPA, section 4(h)(10),
specifically addresses BPA’s use of that fund for fish and
wildlife. See 16 U.S.C. § 839b(h)(10). Significantly, section
4(h)(10) contains provisions that cover the same subjects as
section 4(h)(11)(A) but impose different substantive
requirements. For example, section 4(h)(10)(A) requires that
BPA “use the [BPA] fund . . . to protect, mitigate, and
enhance fish and wildlife to the extent affected by the
development and operation of any hydroelectric project of
the Columbia River and its tributaries.” Id. § 839b(h)(10)(A)
(emphasis added). That language permits BPA to calibrate
fish and wildlife funding based on the disruptiveness of its
hydroelectric power operations. It does not require that fish
and wildlife be put on an equal footing with BPA’s power
interests, which is what we have interpreted section
4(h)(11)(A)(i)’s “equitable treatment” language to mandate.
See Confederated Tribes of Umatilla Indian Rsrv. v.
Bonneville Power Admin., 342 F.3d 924, 931 (9th Cir. 2003)
(explaining that the “equitable treatment” mandate requires
BPA to “consider[] fish on par with power”).
   Likewise, section 4(h)(10)(A) directs BPA to use the
BPA fund to “protect, mitigate, and enhance fish and
wildlife . . . in a manner consistent with . . . the program
14 IDAHO CONSERVATION LEAGUE V. BONNEVILLE POWER ADMIN.


adopted by the Council.” 16 U.S.C. § 839b(h)(10)(A)
(emphasis added). For BPA to act “in a manner consistent
with the program” does not require it to prioritize the
program as much as it practicably can, which is what section
4(h)(11)(A) demands. See 16 U.S.C. § 839b(h)(11)(A)
(requiring BPA to “tak[e] into account at each relevant stage
of decisionmaking processes to the fullest extent practicable,
the program adopted by the Council” (emphasis added)).
    If we were to adopt ICL’s position and construe section
4(h)(11)(A) to apply to BPA’s decisions about how to spend
excess reserves, that provision would conflict with section
4(h)(10)(A). But we must read a statute “to harmonize and
give meaningful effect to all of [its] provisions.” New
Process Steel, L.P. v. NLRB, 560 U.S. 674, 680 (2010). Thus,
we understand the statute to provide that section 4(h)(10)(A)
governs the allocation of excess reserves, but section
4(h)(11)(A) does not.
    ICL attempts to reconcile sections 4(h)(10)(A) and
4(h)(11)(A) by arguing that the former grants BPA the
authority to use the BPA fund for fish and wildlife
protection, while the latter constrains how BPA may do so.
We find that dichotomy unpersuasive. If Congress meant
section 4(h)(10)(A) to authorize BPA to exercise authority
subject to the constraints of section 4(h)(11)(A), we would
expect it to have said so. But nowhere in section 4(h)(10)(A)
did Congress mention section 4(h)(11)(A) or its substantive
requirements. Cf. ICL I, 83 F.4th at 1192 (applying the same
logic to ratemaking).
    In addition, ICL’s characterization of section
4(h)(10)(A) as merely an authority-granting provision
ignores the rest of the text. Elsewhere in section 4(h)(10),
Congress imposed significant procedural requirements on
   IDAHO CONSERVATION LEAGUE V. BONNEVILLE POWER ADMIN. 15


BPA’s use of the authority that it granted. For example,
when BPA funds fish and wildlife projects from its annual
fish and wildlife budget, which implements the Council’s
plan, the NWPA requires that it submit its project proposals
to the Council’s Independent Scientific Review Panel. 16
U.S.C. § 839b(h)(10)(D)(i). The statute further requires that
the Council create Scientific Peer Review Groups to assist
that Panel “in making its recommendations to the Council
for projects to be funded through BPA’s annual fish and
wildlife budget.” Id. § 839b(h)(10)(D)(ii). And it requires
that members of the Panel and the Peer Review Groups be
selected from a list of scientists submitted by the National
Academy of Sciences. Id. In light of those detailed, highly
technical requirements—and the absence of any cross-
reference in the statute—we do not believe that Congress
subjected BPA’s implementation of its annual fish and
wildlife budget to the additional requirements of section
4(h)(11)(A). Yet that would be the logical implication of
ICL’s theory.
    ICL argues that BPA’s interpretation is undermined by
BPA’s concession that certain power-marketing activities
are subject to section 4(h)(11)(A). Power marketing is the
purchase and sale of power to and from the grid, and BPA
sometimes purchases power to ease the power-generation
requirements at facilities across the Basin to make it easier
for fish to migrate. Those power purchases are made using
the BPA fund, so ICL contends that they are no different
from BPA’s allocation of excess reserves. See 16 U.S.C.
§ 838i(b)(6)(iv). But when Congress authorized BPA to
purchase power using money from the BPA fund, it specified
that it was doing so, in part, to allow BPA to fulfill its
obligations to fish and wildlife under section 4(h)(11)(A).
See id. (authorizing BPA to “purchase . . . electric
16 IDAHO CONSERVATION LEAGUE V. BONNEVILLE POWER ADMIN.


power . . . on a short term basis to meet [its] obligations
under section 4(h)”). That leaves little doubt that Congress
considered BPA’s power-marketing activities to be part of
BPA’s “responsibilities” for “managing, operating, or
regulating . . . hydroelectric facilities” in the Columbia
River Basin. 16 U.S.C. § 839b(h)(11)(A). By contrast, the
statutory provision that authorizes BPA to use the BPA fund
for fish and wildlife mitigation projects, section 4(h)(10)(A),
contains no indication that Congress considered that funding
activity to be part of those responsibilities. Rather, that
provision’s inclusion of other requirements, relating to fish
and wildlife and to the Council’s plan, suggests the opposite.
    Our interpretation is reinforced by our decision in ICL I,
in which we held that section 4(h)(11)(A) does not apply to
BPA’s rate-setting decisions. See 83 F.4th at 1192. In that
case, ICL argued that BPA had set its rates too low,
preventing it from generating the revenue necessary to
comply with section 4(h)(11)(A)’s mandate. See id. But,
guided by the structure of the NWPA, we held that section
4(h)(11)(A) does not constrain ratemaking. See id. at 1192.
We observed that section 7 of the NWPA, 16 U.S.C. § 839e,
“prescribes extensive requirements and procedures for
BPA’s ratemakings,” yet it does not “so much as
acknowledge § 4(h)(11)(A), much less the significant
obligations that it imposes when it applies.” 83 F.4th at 1192.
And we noted that section 7 requires BPA to weigh various
“equitable” considerations without mentioning section
4(h)(11)(A)’s “equitable treatment” mandate. Id. at 1193.
We saw no reason “why Congress would have enacted
extensive provisions governing ratemaking in § 7, only to
layer on major additional environmental mitigation-related
requirements in a wholly separate provision that does not
even discuss ratemaking.” Id. at 1192. As we have
   IDAHO CONSERVATION LEAGUE V. BONNEVILLE POWER ADMIN. 17


explained, similar features of section 4(h)(10)(A) support an
analogous inference here.
    ICL attempts to distinguish ICL I on the theory that the
“exceedingly detailed” nature of the ratemaking process in
section 7 created a strong inference that Congress meant to
exclude ratemaking decisions from section 4(h)(11)(A)’s
coverage. See ICL I, 83 F.4th at 1192. In contrast, ICL
contends, BPA’s decision making about how to allocate its
excess financial reserves is “highly informal,” making a
comparable inference unreasonable. But no matter how
informal BPA’s process for allocating its excess reserves
may be, it is authorized by a complex statutory provision
that, like section 7, imposes obligations related to fish and
wildlife without mentioning the fish and wildlife obligations
contained in section 4(h)(11)(A). Section 7 requires BPA to
“equitably allocate to power rates . . . all costs and
benefits . . . including, but not limited to, . . . fish and
wildlife measures.” 16 U.S.C. § 839e(g). Section
4(h)(10)(A), as explained, requires BPA to “protect,
mitigate, and enhance fish and wildlife to the extent affected
by the development and operation of any hydroelectric
project of the Columbia River and its tributaries” and to use
the BPA fund “in a manner consistent with . . . the program
adopted by the Council.” 16 U.S.C. § 839b(h)(10)(A).
Neither provision mentions section 4(h)(11)(A), and the
reasoning we employed in ICL I applies equally here.
    ICL argues that our conclusion is in tension with two of
our prior decisions: Northwest Env’t Def. Ctr. v. Bonneville
Power Admin. (NEDC), 117 F.3d 1520 (9th Cir. 1997), and
Confederated Tribes, 342 F.3d 924. In NEDC, the petitioners
argued that BPA violated section 4(h)(11)(A) by acquiring
new water storage capacity but failing to dedicate enough of
that capacity to fish and wildlife interests. 117 F.3d at 1532.
18 IDAHO CONSERVATION LEAGUE V. BONNEVILLE POWER ADMIN.


In evaluating that argument, we explained that “BPA’s
responsibilities to protect fish and wildlife do not end with
even complete adoption of the Council’s Program.” Id. But
we did not say, as ICL suggests, that the “equitable
treatment” mandate encompasses BPA’s obligation to fund
fish and wildlife mitigation efforts. To the contrary, we
described the “equitable treatment” mandate as
“independent” of BPA’s responsibilities vis-à-vis the
Council’s Program. Id. And our concern in NEDC was
principally with what section 4(h)(11)(A) requires when it
applies, not, as in this case, with the antecedent question of
which actions it applies to. We had no occasion to consider
that question in NEDC because the challenged decision—
how much water-storage capacity to dedicate to fish and how
much to dedicate to electricity production—bore directly on
BPA’s operation and management of its hydroelectric
facilities, and BPA did not argue otherwise.
    In Confederated Tribes, petitioners challenged a BPA
decision document as violative of the “equitable treatment”
mandate because it “lack[ed] a special document or section
fully detailing its efforts to treat wildlife and fish on par with
power.” 342 F.3d at 931. In response, BPA pointed out that
it “continues undiminished its expenditures to support fish
and wildlife measures.” Id. at 932. ICL reads that concession
to be inconsistent with BPA’s position in this case—namely,
that financial decisions are not subject to the equitable-
treatment mandate. But all that BPA acknowledged in
Confederated Tribes is that it may fulfill its equitable-
treatment mandate by allocating money to fish and wildlife
protection efforts. For example, if BPA decides against
reducing hydroelectric operations at a particular facility, it
may attempt to offset any resulting harm to fish and wildlife
through mitigation spending. It does not follow that BPA
   IDAHO CONSERVATION LEAGUE V. BONNEVILLE POWER ADMIN. 19


must endeavor to satisfy its section 4(h)(11)(A) obligations
that way.
    Finally, ICL argues that construing section 4(h)(11)(A)
as not governing BPA’s allocation of its excess reserves will
“undermine[] the overall efficacy of the Council’s Fish and
Wildlife Program, frustrating the statutory scheme.” Of
course, although promoting the Council’s program was
undoubtedly one of Congress’s purposes, we do not presume
“that any result consistent with . . . the statute’s overarching
goal must be the law.” Henson v. Santander Consumer USA
Inc., 582 U.S. 79, 89 (2017). In any event, we find ICL’s
policy concern unfounded. As we have explained, section
4(h)(10)(A)—which all agree governs BPA’s use of the BPA
fund for fish and wildlife protection—requires BPA to
consider the Council’s plan and ensure that spending under
that section be “consistent with the plan.” 16 U.S.C.
§ 839b(h)(10)(A). BPA need not also comply with the
requirements of section 4(h)(11)(A) to take a comprehensive
approach to fish and wildlife protection.
    In sum, we hold that BPA’s allocation of its excess
financial reserves is not subject to the requirements of
section 4(h)(11)(A) of the NWPA.
   PETITIONS DENIED.
