                  FOR PUBLICATION

   UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
        FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

STATE OF NEBRASKA; STATE OF                 No. 23-15179
IDAHO; STATE OF INDIANA;
STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA,                   D.C. No. 2:22-cv-
                                              00213-JJT
               Plaintiffs-Appellants,
 and
                                              OPINION
STATE OF ARIZONA; MARK
BRNOVICH, Attorney General, in his
official capacity as Attorney General
of Arizona,

               Plaintiffs,
  v.

JULIE A. SU, in her official capacity
as U.S. Secretary of Labor; U.S.
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR, Wage
& Hour Division; JOSEPH R. BIDEN,
in his official capacity as President of
the United States; JESSICA
LOOMAN, in her official capacity as
Acting Administrator of the U.S.
Department of Labor, Wage & Hour
Division,

               Defendants-Appellees.
2                    STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


          Appeal from the United States District Court
                   for the District of Arizona
          John Joseph Tuchi, District Judge, Presiding

            Argued and Submitted February 6, 2024
                  San Francisco, California

                    Filed November 5, 2024

    Before: Ryan D. Nelson, Danielle J. Forrest, and Gabriel
                 P. Sanchez, Circuit Judges.

                 Opinion by Judge R. Nelson;
               Concurrence by Judge R. Nelson;
                  Dissent by Judge Sanchez


                          SUMMARY *


      Minimum Wage Mandate / Federal Property and
              Administrative Services Act

    In an action brought by several states challenging
Executive Order 14026, which directed federal agencies to
include a clause in federal contracts requiring contractors to
pay employees a $15 minimum wage, and a Department of
Labor (DOL) rule implementing the executive order, the
panel (1) reversed the district court’s order dismissing the
states’ complaint; (2) vacated the district court’s order


*
 This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
                   STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                   3


denying the states a preliminary             injunction;   and
(3) remanded for further proceedings.
    The states argued on appeal that the executive order and
DOL implementing rule violated the Federal Property and
Administrative Services Act (FPASA) and the major
questions doctrine, and that the DOL implementing rule
violated the Administrative Procedure Act (APA).
    First, the panel held that the minimum wage mandate
exceeds the authority granted to the President and DOL in
the FPASA because the congressional purpose stated in
§ 101 of the FPASA does not authorize the President to
impose a wage mandate absent other operative language in
the FPASA. The FPASA’s operative sections do not
authorize the minimum wage mandate. The President
cannot issue an executive order instructing agencies to carry
out the minimum wage mandate by pointing to any of the
FPASA’s operative sections, and DOL similarly cannot
issue a minimum wage rule under any of the FPASA’s
operative sections.
    Second, the panel held that the major questions doctrine
does not apply because the Executive’s reliance on the
FPASA for the minimum wage mandate is not a
“transformative” expansion of its authority.
   Third, the panel held that DOL’s implementing rule was
subject to arbitrary-or-capricious review under the APA, and
DOL acted arbitrarily or capriciously when it failed to
consider alternatives to the $15 per hour minimum wage
mandate.
    Concurring, Judge R. Nelson wrote that although—as
the majority concludes—the minimum wage mandate does
not violate the major questions doctrine because it is not a
4                  STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


“transformative expansion” of the President’s authority
under the FPASA, in his view the major questions doctrine
applies to statutes that delegate authority to the President.
    Dissenting, Judge Sanchez would hold that Executive
Order 14026 fits comfortably within the President’s broad
authority under the FSAPA to direct federal agencies in the
use of their statutory power to specify the terms of federal
contracts. He would also hold that DOL did not act
arbitrarily or capriciously by implementing a binding
presidential directive.


                        COUNSEL

Eric J. Hamilton (argued), Solicitor General; Lincoln J.
Korell, Assistant Attorney General; Michael T. Hilgers,
Nebraska Attorney General; Office of the Nebraska
Attorney General, Lincoln, Nebraska; Alan M. Hurst,
Deputy Attorney General; Douglas A. Werth, Lead Deputy
Attorney General; Joshua N. Turner, Deputy Solicitor
General; Raul Labrador, Idaho Attorney General; Idaho
Office of the Attorney General, Boise, Idaho; James A.
Barta, Deputy Solicitor General; Todd Rokita, Indiana
Attorney General; Office of the Indiana Attorney General,
Indianapolis, Indiana; Thomas T. Hydrick, Assistant Deputy
Solicitor General; Alan Wilson, South Carolina Attorney
General; Office of the South Carolina Attorney General,
Columbia, South Carolina; for Plaintiffs-Appellants.
Daniel L. Winik (argued) and Mark B. Stern, Appellate Staff
Attorneys, Civil Division; Gary M. Restaino, United States
Attorney; Brian M. Boynton, Principal Deputy Assistant
Attorney General; United States Department of Justice,
Washington, D.C.; for Defendants-Appellees.
                  STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                 5


Caleb Kruckenberg and Aditya Dynar, Pacific Legal
Foundation, Arlington, Virginia; for Amici Curiae Pacific
Legal Foundation and the National Federation of
Independent Business Small Business Legal Center, Inc..
Elizabeth B. Wydra, Brianne J. Gorod, and Brian R.
Frazelle, Constitutional Accountability Center, Washington,
D.C.; for Amicus Curiae Constitutional Accountability
Center.
Sarah A. Hunger, Deputy Solicitor General; Jane E. Notz,
Solicitor General; Kwame Raoul, Illinois Attorney General;
Illinois Attorney General's Office, Chicago, Illinois; Rob
Bonta, California Attorney General, Office of the California
Attorney General, Sacramento, California; Philip J. Weiser,
Colorado Attorney General, Office of the Colorado Attorney
General, Denver, Colorado; William Tong, Connecticut
Attorney General, Office of the Connecticut Attorney
General, Hartford, Connecticut; Kathleen Jennings,
Delaware Attorney General, Office of the Delaware
Attorney General, Wilmington, Delaware; Brian L.
Schwalb, District of Columbia Attorney General, Office of
the District of Columbia Attorney General, Washington,
D.C.; Anne E. Lopez, Hawaii Attorney General, Office of
the Hawaii Attorney General, Honolulu, Hawaii; Aaron M.
Frey, Maine Attorney General, Office of the Maine Attorney
General, Augusta, Maine; Anthony G. Brown, Maryland
Attorney General, Office of the Maryland Attorney General,
Baltimore, Maryland; Andrea J. Campbell, Massachusetts
Attorney General, Office of the Massachusetts Attorney
General, Boston, Massachusetts; Dana Nessel, Michigan
Attorney General, Office of the Michigan Attorney General,
Lansing, Michigan; Keith Ellison, Minnesota Attorney
General, Office of the Minnesota Attorney General, St. Paul,
Minnesota; Aaron D. Ford, Nevada Attorney General, Office
6                 STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


of the Nevada Attorney General, Carson City, Nevada;
Matthew J. Platkin, New Jersey Attorney General, Office of
the New Jersey Attorney General, Trenton, New Jersey;
Raul Torrez, New Mexico Attorney General, Office of the
New Mexico Attorney General, Santa Fe, New Mexico;
Letitia James, New York Attorney General, Office of the
New York Attorney General, New York, New York; Joshua
H. Stein, North Carolina Attorney General, Office of the
North Carolina Attorney General, Raleigh, North Carolina;
Ellen F. Rosenblum, Oregon Attorney General, Office of the
Oregon Attorney General, Salem, Oregon; Michelle A.
Henry, Pennsylvania Attorney General, Office of the
Pennsylvania Attorney General, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania;
Peter F. Neronha, Rhode Island Attorney General, Office of
the Rhode Island Attorney General, Providence, Rhode
Island; Charity R. Clark, Vermont Attorney General, Office
of the Vermont Attorney General, Montpelier, Vermont;
Robert W. Ferguson, Washington Attorney General, Office
of the Washington Attorney General, Seattle, Washington;
Joshua L. Kaul, Wisconsin Attorney General, Office of the
Wisconsin Attorney General, Madison, Wisconsin; for
Amici Curiae Illinois, California, Colorado, Connecticut,
Delaware, District of Columbia, Hawaii, Maine, Maryland,
Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada, New Jersey,
New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Oregon,
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, Washington, and
Wisconsin.
Jeffrey Dubner and Brooke Menschel, Democracy Forward
Foundation, Washington, D.C., for Amici Curiae National
Employment Law Project, Communications Workers of
America, Service Employees International Union, National
Women’s Law Center, and Economic Policy Institute.
                   STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                  7


                         OPINION

R. NELSON, Circuit Judge:

   In 2021, President Biden issued Executive Order 14026
which directed federal agencies to include a clause in federal
contracts requiring contractors to pay employees a $15
minimum wage. Following notice and comment, the
Department of Labor issued a rule implementing the
executive order.
    Five states challenged enforcement of the minimum
wage mandate. Four of those states argue on appeal that the
executive order and implementing rule violate the Federal
Property and Administrative Services Act and the major
questions doctrine, and that the implementing rule violates
the Administrative Procedure Act. We conclude that the
Plaintiff States have stated legally sufficient claims and
therefore reverse the district court’s order dismissing the
complaint. We also vacate the district court’s order denying
the Plaintiff States a preliminary injunction and remand for
further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
                              I
                              A
    Congress enacted the Federal Property and
Administrative Services Act of 1949 (FPASA) “to provide
the Federal Government with an economical and efficient
system for . . . [p]rocuring and supplying property and
nonpersonal services, and performing related functions
including contracting.” 40 U.S.C. § 101(1).
   In 2014, President Obama invoked the FPASA to issue
an executive order requiring federal contractors to pay
8                 STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


employees a $10.10 per hour minimum wage. Exec. Order
No. 13658, 79 Fed. Reg. 9851 (Feb. 12, 2014). Following
notice and comment, the Department of Labor (DOL) issued
a rule implementing the executive order. Establishing a
Minimum Wage for Contractors, 79 Fed. Reg. 60,634 (Oct.
7, 2014). The rule was not challenged.
    In 2018, President Trump issued an executive order that
excluded contracts related to seasonal recreational services
from the minimum wage requirements of President Obama’s
2014 executive order. Exec. Order No. 13838, 83 Fed. Reg.
25,341 (May 25, 2018). But President Trump’s executive
order maintained the minimum wage requirement for
“lodging and food services associated with seasonal
recreational services.”     Id.   DOL again issued an
implementing rule following notice and comment.
Minimum Wage for Contractors; Updating Regulations to
Reflect Executive Order 13838, 83 Fed. Reg. 48,537 (Sept.
26, 2018). This rule was also unchallenged.
    About three months after taking office, President Biden
issued Executive Order 14026 which required federal
contractors to pay employees a $15 minimum wage. 86 Fed.
Reg. 22,835 (Apr. 27, 2021). President Biden also rescinded
President Trump’s 2018 exemption for seasonal recreational
services. Id. at 22,836. The executive order noted that
“[r]aising the minimum wage enhances worker productivity
and generates higher-quality work by boosting workers’
health, morale, and effort; reducing absenteeism and
turnover; and lowering supervisory and training costs.” Id.
at 22,835.
    Following notice and comment, DOL issued a final rule
implementing President Biden’s executive order. Increasing
the Minimum Wage for Federal Contractors, 86 Fed. Reg.
                   STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                  9


67,126 (Nov. 24, 2021).           DOL acknowledged that
government expenditures may rise if the increased cost to
contractors is passed along to the government. Id. at 67,206.
But it concluded that increased productivity, reduced
turnover, and reduced absenteeism would offset some of
those costs. See id. at 67,212–14. DOL estimated that
federal contractors would pay $1.7 billion annually in extra
expenses because of the rule. Id. at 67,194. It did not
quantify any cost savings resulting from increased
productivity, reduced turnover, and reduced absenteeism.
Id. at 67,212.
                              B
    Five states challenged the wage mandate immediately
after it took effect. The states alleged that the wage mandate
violated the FPASA, the Administrative Procedure Act
(APA), the major questions doctrine, the non-delegation
doctrine, and the Spending Clause. They sought to enjoin
and vacate both the executive order and DOL’s
implementing rule. The states sought a preliminary
injunction, and the Government sought dismissal or
summary judgment.
    The district court denied a preliminary injunction and
granted Defendants’ motion to dismiss. Arizona v. Walsh,
No. CV-22-00213, 2023 WL 120966, at *13 (D. Ariz. Jan.
6, 2023). It concluded that the wage mandate did not violate
the FPASA, and the major questions doctrine did not apply
because the economic impact was too small. Id. at *4–8.
The district court also reasoned that the rule was not subject
to arbitrary-or-capricious review because DOL had to adopt
the policy by executive order. Id. at *9–11. The district
court concluded that the FPASA provided an adequate
“intelligible principle” and did not violate the non-
10                 STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


delegation doctrine. Id. at *11–12. Finally, it concluded that
the rule did not violate the Spending Clause. Id. at *12–13.
The district court did not evaluate Defendants’ motion for
summary judgment and instead concluded that Plaintiffs did
not state legally sufficient claims. Id. at *13.
    Four of the five states (Appellants) appealed. They
assert that the executive order and implementing rule violate
the FPASA and the major questions doctrine, and that the
implementing rule violates the APA. They did not raise the
non-delegation or Spending Clause claims on appeal.
    Nebraska, Idaho, and Indiana had minimum wages of
between $7.25 and $9.00 per hour when the mandate took
effect. Arizona had a minimum wage of $12.80 per hour.
And South Carolina lacked a state-specific minimum wage.
In January 2024, the mandated minimum wage increased to
$17.20 because of inflation, which exceeded the minimum
wage in every Plaintiff State. Compare Minimum Wage for
Federal Contracts Covered by Executive Order 14026,
Notice of Rate Change in Effect as of January 1, 2024, 88
Fed. Reg. 66,906 (Sept. 28, 2023), with State Minimum
Wage Laws, U.S. Dep’t of Labor, https://perma.cc/3L6L-
HE4J (last accessed Sept. 7, 2024).
    Appellants are affected by the wage mandate because
they sometimes act as federal contractors. For example,
Idaho State University and the Idaho Department of Fish and
Game (both arms of the State of Idaho) contract with the
federal government to provide various services, such as
improving fisheries and researching energy and resource
security. Appellants thus had to cover the cost of increased
wages with funds marked for other expenses.
                   STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                   11


                               II
    We review de novo a district court’s grant of a motion to
dismiss for failure to state a claim, “tak[ing] all allegations
of fact as true and constru[ing] them in the light most
favorable to the nonmoving party.” Sinclair v. City of
Seattle, 61 F.4th 674, 678 (9th Cir. 2023). The denial of a
motion for a preliminary injunction is reviewed for abuse of
discretion while the underlying interpretations of law are
reviewed de novo. Assurance Wireless USA, L.P. v.
Reynolds, 100 F.4th 1024, 1031 (9th Cir. 2024).
                              III
    Appellants raise three main arguments on appeal. First,
Appellants argue that the district court erred in concluding
that the executive order and DOL’s implementing rule did
not exceed the authority granted under the FPASA. Second,
they argue that the minimum wage mandate violates the
major questions doctrine because the FPASA lacks a clear
statement, and the minimum wage mandate is economically
and politically significant. Third, they argue that the district
court erred in concluding that the rule is not subject to
arbitrary-or-capricious review under the APA.
                               A
    The Government points to two provisions of the FPASA
that plausibly provide the President with the authority to
issue the minimum wage mandate:

       § 101. Purpose
       The purpose of this subtitle is to provide the
       Federal Government with an economical and
       efficient system for the following activities:
12                   STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


        (1) Procuring and supplying property and
        nonpersonal services, and performing related
        functions including contracting . . . .

40 U.S.C. § 101.

        § 121. Administrative
        (a) Policies prescribed by the President. –
        The President may prescribe policies and
        directives that the President considers
        necessary to carry out this subtitle. The
        policies must be consistent with this subtitle.

40 U.S.C. § 121(a). The Government argues that these two
provisions, read together, provide the President with broad
authority to implement any policy he “considers necessary”
to carrying out the FPASA so long as the policy bears some
nexus to the statutory goals of economy and efficiency. The
minimum wage mandate, the Government argues, has the
requisite nexus to economy and efficiency.
    Appellants argue that the congressional purpose stated in
§ 101 does not authorize the President to impose a wage
mandate absent other operative language in the FPASA.
Thus, § 101 is not a hook for the President’s exercise of
authority under the FPASA and § 121 does not authorize the
President to “carry out” the FPASA’s purpose. Rather, the
President can only use § 121 to implement one of the
FPASA’s operative sections. 1 And Appellants assert that no
operative section authorizes the minimum wage mandate.


1
 Appellants also assert that DOL had to articulate that its rule was
carrying out an operative section of the FPASA to survive APA review.
                       STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                           13


    We conclude that the minimum wage mandate exceeds
the authority granted to the President and DOL in the
FPASA.
                                     1
    Section 121 does not authorize the President to “carry
out” any actions he deems necessary to accomplish the
purposes of the FPASA. 40 U.S.C. § 121(a). Instead, the
President can only rely on § 121 to issue a policy that
otherwise carries out an operative provision of the FPASA.
The Government relies heavily on the FPASA’s statement of
purpose, arguing that § 101 authorizes the President to
prescribe policies that he considers necessary to ensure an
economical and efficient procurement system. For the
reasons discussed below, we disagree.
     The Sixth Circuit recently considered the President’s
authority under the FPASA to mandate that employees of
federal contractors be vaccinated against COVID-19. See
Kentucky v. Biden, 23 F.4th 585, 589 (6th Cir. 2022). It
noted that “[s]tatements of purpose may be useful in
construing enumerated powers later found in a statute’s
operative provisions.” Id. at 604 (citing Sturgeon v. Frost,
587 U.S. 28, 55–57 (2019)). But they are not operative and
“cannot confer freestanding powers upon the President
unbacked by operative language elsewhere in the statute.”
Id. (citing Gundy v. United States, 588 U.S. 128, 142 (2019)
(quoting Antonin Scalia & Bryan A. Garner, Reading Law:
The Interpretation of Legal Texts 218 (2012))). In short, the
purpose clause “does not limit or expand the scope of [an]

Although an agency must articulate reasons for issuing a rule under
arbitrary-or-capricious review, the same is not true for legal authority.
In issuing a rule, an agency either acts in accordance with the law or it
does not, regardless of the justifications explained in the rule’s preamble.
14                 STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


operative clause” like § 121. District of Columbia v. Heller,
554 U.S. 570, 578 (2008).
    We do not have binding precedent addressing the scope
of the President’s authority under the FPASA. We recently
vacated as moot our opinion in Mayes v. Biden, which
addressed the lawfulness of the federal contractor COVID-
19 vaccine mandate under the FPASA. 67 F.4th 921 (9th
Cir. 2023), vacated as moot, 89 F.4th 1186 (9th Cir. 2023).
Mayes construed the § 101 purpose statement as operative
and concluded that the FPASA provided the President with
the authority to issue the COVID-19 vaccine mandate. Id. at
940. We do not find the Mayes analysis persuasive. The
better analysis is that the President can only issue a policy
that carries out an operative provision of the FPASA.
    The statutory text makes this clear. By authorizing the
President to “prescribe policies and directives . . . to carry
out [the FPASA],” the President can make rules for the
Executive Branch’s implementation of the Act’s many
operative provisions. 40 U.S.C. § 121(a). “The phrase
‘carry out’ requires a task to be done—something ‘to put into
practice or effect.’” Commonwealth v. Biden, 57 F.4th 545,
552 (6th Cir. 2023) (quoting Carry Out, American Heritage
Dictionary of the English Language (1969)). But the
President cannot “carry out this subtitle” by “exerting a
power the subtitle never actually confers.” Kentucky, 23
F.4th at 606.
   True, the President “may enjoy a modest valence of
necessary and proper powers surrounding those powers
enumerated” in the statute. Id. But before he can wield this
necessary and proper power, he must show that it derives
from an enumerated power. Id.
                   STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                  15


    We are persuaded by the analysis from other circuits
which have not construed the FPASA’s purpose statement as
operative. Like the Sixth Circuit, an Eleventh Circuit judge,
in assessing the legality of the COVID-19 vaccine mandate,
reasoned that executive orders “cannot rest merely on the
‘policy objectives of the [FPASA].’” Georgia v. President
of the U.S., 46 F.4th 1283, 1298 (11th Cir. 2022) (Grant, J.)
(quoting Indep. Meat Packers Ass’n v. Butz, 526 F.2d 228,
235 (8th Cir. 1975)). Rather, “[s]tatements of purpose are
‘in reality as well as in name not part of the congressionally
legislated or privately created set of rights and duties.’” Id.
(quoting Scalia & Garner, supra, at 217). The Fifth Circuit
also held that the FPASA’s purpose statement was not a
broad grant of authority for the COVID-19 vaccine mandate.
Louisiana v. Biden, 55 F.4th 1017, 1023 n.17 (5th Cir. 2022).
And it agreed that such a broad interpretation was “in
violation of Supreme Court precedent.” Id.
    Relevant tools of statutory interpretation reinforce this
conclusion. For example, the Supreme Court avoids
“interpreting any statutory provision in a manner that would
render another provision superfluous.” Bilski v. Kappos, 561
U.S. 593, 607–08 (2010). Elsewhere in the FPASA,
Congress directed agencies to promote economy and
efficiency in specific ways. For example, agencies must
keep furniture when they move to a new office unless “the
Administrator determines . . . that it would not be more
economical and efficient to make suitable replacements.” 40
U.S.C. § 588(c). And agencies may “repair, alter, or
improve rented premises if the Administrator determines
that doing so is advantageous to the Government in terms of
economy, efficiency, or national security.” Id. § 581(c)(4);
see also, e.g., id. §§ 501(a)(1)(A), 506(b), 582(b), 590(a),
16                 STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


603(a)(1). Under the Government’s preferred interpretation,
these sections contain superfluity.
    The Government’s preferred interpretation would wildly
expand the President’s authority from other statutes that
contain both the “carry out” language and a congressional
statement of purpose. For example, under the Defense
Production Act, “the President may prescribe such
regulations and issue such orders as the President may
determine to be appropriate to carry out this chapter.” 50
U.S.C. § 4554(a). A purpose section in the referenced
chapter adds that “the security of the United States is
dependent on the ability of the domestic industrial base to
supply materials and services for the national defense.” Id.
§ 4502(a)(1). The two statutes combined surely do not
authorize the President to impose any regulation on the
industrial sector he deems necessary to promote national
security.
    The Supreme Court endorsed this interpretive approach
when addressing whether § 121 authorized the President to
issue an executive order prohibiting employment
discrimination by federal contractors. See Chrysler Corp. v.
Brown, 441 U.S. 281, 304 (1979). The Court determined
that it was not necessary to decide whether the FPASA
authorized the executive order. Id. But it suggested that the
executive order lacked authority under the FPASA because
§ 121(a) “authorizes Executive Orders ‘necessary to
effectuate [its] provisions’” and “nowhere in the Act is there
a specific reference to employment discrimination.” Id. at
304 n.34.
    In short, § 121 does not give the President unrestrained
authority to issue any procurement policy that he desires.
                      STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                        17


The President can only use § 121 to issue a policy that carries
out an operative provision of the FPASA.
    The dissent does not seriously dispute this point. It
identifies the same three operative provisions as the
Government. Dissent at 46 (citing 41 U.S.C. §§ 3101(a);
3306(a); 3703(c)). It then explains that the FPASA
authorizes the President to “‘carry out’ the Act’s subtitles—
including the above-mentioned provisions authorizing
agencies to specify the terms of federal contracts.” Dissent
at 47 (quoting 40 U.S.C. § 121(a)). But the dissent would
then have us hold that executive action under the FPASA is
“consistent with” the Act’s subtitles so long as it has some
nexus to economy and efficiency. Dissent at 49. That is the
law in three other circuits, and it is the view that we applied
in Mayes. 67 F.4th at 940, vacated as moot, 89 F.4th 1186.2
    The D.C. Circuit, for example, requires a “sufficiently
close nexus” between a policy issued under the FPASA and
economy and efficiency. UAW-Lab. Emp. & Training Corp.
v. Chao, 325 F.3d 360, 366 (D.C. Cir. 2003) (quoting AFL-
CIO v. Kahn, 618 F.2d 784, 792 (D.C. Cir. 1979) (en banc)).
In Chao, the D.C. Circuit upheld President George W.
Bush’s executive order requiring contractors to post notices
informing employees of their right to not join a union
because the policy enhanced worker productivity and had a
“sufficiently close nexus” to economy and efficiency. Id. at
362, 366–67. The Fourth Circuit only requires a policy to be
“reasonably related to the [FPASA’s] purpose of ensuring
efficiency and economy in government procurement.”

2
 Make no mistake, as the dissent acknowledges, Mayes is no longer
binding law. See Durning v. Citibank, N.A., 950 F.2d 1419, 1424 n.2
(9th Cir. 1991) (“[A] decision that has been vacated has no precedential
authority whatsoever.”).
18                     STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


Liberty Mut. Ins. Co. v. Friedman, 639 F.2d 164, 170 (4th
Cir. 1981). But neither court has grappled with the
interpretive analysis set out above—the Fourth Circuit
addressed this issue more than 40 years ago. And it largely
ignored any analysis using the tools of statutory
interpretation which, as explained, undermines its
conclusions.
    The Tenth Circuit recently addressed a slightly different
scenario: whether the DOL minimum wage mandate rule is
permissible as applied to recreational services permittees.
See Bradford v. U.S. Dep’t of Lab., 101 F.4th 707, 732 (10th
Cir. 2024), petition for cert. filed, No. 24-232 (U.S. Aug. 28,
2024). The Tenth Circuit majority held that the FPASA
authorizes the President to implement policies he considers
necessary to promote an economic and efficient procurement
system, pointing to § 101 as the only source for this
authority. Id. at 721. 3 The majority then upheld the rule
because it “advances the statutory objectives of economy
and efficiency.” Id. at 714.
    For the reasons explained above, we disagree with this
interpretive approach. The circuits that have taken this view
ignored principles of statutory construction by relying on the
statement-of-purpose section to locate unfettered authority
for the President. Their rule would give the President the
authority to implement any procurement policy he considers
necessary so long as it has some relation to economy and


3
  In her dissenting opinion, Judge Eid reasoned that if the FPASA “grants
the President nearly unfettered power to create any policy he considers
necessary to carry out nonpersonal services under the guise of economy
and efficiency,” then it lacks an intelligible principle and violates the
non-delegation doctrine. Bradford, 101 F.4th at 733 (Eid, J., dissenting).
Appellants have not raised the non-delegation argument on appeal.
                   STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                 19


efficiency. But there is no real limiting factor in this
interpretation. It would allow the President to require that
“all federal contractors certify that their employees take
daily vitamins, live in smoke-free homes, exercise three
times a week, or even, at the extremity, take birth control in
order to reduce absenteeism relating to childbirth and care.”
Louisiana, 55 F.4th at 1032. A statutory purpose statement
alone cannot bear that weight.
    Even under this faulty interpretation, the administrative
record does not establish that DOL’s rule serves the interests
of economy and efficiency. DOL recognizes that its rule will
cost federal contractors $1.7 billion and that this cost will
likely be passed onto the government. 86 Fed. Reg. at
67,194, 67,206, 67,209. DOL asserts that there are benefits
in the form of “improved government services, increased
morale and productivity, reduced turnover, reduced
absenteeism, increased equity, and reduced poverty and
income inequality for Federal contract workers.” Id. at
67,212. But DOL admits that the empirical research offered
to support those claims “does not directly consider [an
equivalent] change in the minimum wage” and is largely
“based on voluntary changes made by firms.” Id. Any
increases in productivity and reductions in turnover are only
expected to “help offset the costs” of the rule—not to
outweigh the costs. Id. at 67,207. If benefits from improved
productivity and reduced turnover were expected to create
enough benefit to outweigh the costs, then government
procurement costs would fall. But DOL confesses that
expenditures will likely rise. See id. Thus, on net, the rule
cannot be deemed to promote economy and efficiency.
   The Tenth Circuit majority ignored this reality. This
undermines that court’s conclusion because the court simply
rubber-stamped the DOL rule. Under the Tenth Circuit’s
20                     STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


view, the President has the authority to act under §§ 101 and
121 if he merely thinks the rule promotes economy and
efficiency—despite an administrative record that shows the
opposite. The Tenth Circuit’s broad interpretation of the
FPASA would promote perverse incentives that lack any
statutory basis.
     For these reasons, we conclude that § 101 is not a source
of the President’s authority. We must find that authority, if
it exists, in other operative sections of the FPASA.
                                    2
    We next look at whether the FPASA’s operative sections
authorize the minimum wage mandate. 4 The Government
argues that three provisions authorize the President to issue
an executive order instructing agencies to carry out the
minimum wage mandate: 41 U.S.C. §§ 3101(a), 3703(c),
and 3306(a). None of these sections give the President
authority to issue the minimum wage mandate.
    Section 3101 states that “[a]n executive agency shall
make purchases and contracts for property and services in
accordance with this division and implementing regulations
of the Administrator of General Services.” 41 U.S.C.
§ 3101(a). This text simply requires agencies to comply
with two authorities in executing contracts: (1) Division C
of Subtitle I of Title 41, and (2) regulations issued by the

4
  The dissent misunderstands this analysis as a “search” for a “statutory
provision specifically referencing a $15 minimum wage for work on
federal projects.” Dissent at 52, 54. Not so. We ask whether an
operative provision in the FPASA can be read to permit a minimum wage
mandate, not whether Congress had the foresight to “explicitly
authorize” specific wages “for government contractors and workers that
the infinitely various contractual circumstances may require.” Georgia,
46 F.4th at 1311 (Anderson, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part).
                   STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                  21


Administrator under § 121(c). The Government does not
argue that § 3101(a) provides independent authority for a
minimum wage mandate. It argues that two provisions
referenced in § 3101(a)—§§ 3703(c) and 3306(a) (both in
Division C)—authorize the mandate.
    According to the Government, § 3703(c) gives agencies
wide discretion to choose vendors who provide the best
value. Section 3703(c) states that agencies shall award
contracts “to the responsible source whose proposal is most
advantageous         to      the     Federal      Government,
considering . . . [the] cost or price” of the contract “and the
other factors included in the solicitation.” Id. § 3703(c).
Under this provision, “agencies are entrusted with a good
deal of discretion in determining which bid is the most
advantageous to the Government.” Lockheed Missiles &
Space Co. v. Bentsen, 4 F.3d 955, 959 (Fed. Cir. 1993)
(internal quotation marks and citation omitted). But
§ 3703(c) does not provide any authority for adopting a
nationwide minimum wage rule. It dictates only how
agencies determine which bid on an individual solicitation is
most advantageous. It does not speak to the policies or terms
that the agency may impose in any resulting contract.
    Section 3306(a) is similarly inapplicable. It gives
agencies the authority to “specify [their] needs” when
preparing a solicitation for a specific procurement. 41
U.S.C. § 3306(a)(1)(A). In doing so, agencies can impose
“restrictive provisions or conditions” which, the
Government implies, can include a minimum wage rate. Id.
§ 3306(a)(2)(B). That authority is not nearly as broad as the
Government (and dissent) claims. See Dissent at 56. An
agency may only impose restrictive provisions or conditions
“to the extent necessary to satisfy the needs of the executive
agency or as authorized by law.” 41 U.S.C. § 3306(a)(2)(B).
22                 STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


And even when an agency imposes a restrictive provision,
the solicitation still must “permit full and open competition.”
Id. § 3306(a)(2)(A); see also id. § 3306(a)(3) (specifications
“shall depend on the nature of the needs of the executive
agency and the market available to satisfy those needs”).
     The minimum wage mandate flouts these requirements.
To invoke § 3306(a) as a grant of authority, the Government
must maintain that minimum wage rates for federal
contractors are “restrictive provisions or conditions” that
still “permit full and open competition.” Id. § 3306(a)(2)(A),
(B). But minimum wage rates invariably impair competition
in the market for federal contracting services. See Legal Aid
Soc. of Alameda Cnty. v. Brennan, 608 F.2d 1319, 1341 (9th
Cir. 1979) (looking at the market in a “contractor’s labor
area” to consider the application of federal contractor
regulations). By imposing a uniform minimum wage
mandate on all federal contractors, the Government strips
federal contract bidders of a key way to differentiate their
services—labor cost. And the wage mandate does the
opposite of accounting for “the market available.” 41 U.S.C.
§ 3306(a)(3). Setting a price control on labor disregards
worker supply and demand, geographic price differentials on
costs for federal contracting services, and local market
realities.
    The FPASA’s text can be contrasted with the three
statutes in which Congress did authorize a minimum wage
for various federal contractors. The Davis-Bacon Act, the
Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act, and the McNamara-
O’Hara Service Contract Act all require payment of the local
“prevailing” wage rather than a fixed nationwide wage. See
40 U.S.C. § 3142(b); 41 U.S.C. §§ 6502(1), 6703(1). Each
statute has its own regulatory scheme designed for a
particular context (laborers and mechanics, contractors
                   STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                 23


engaged in furnishing goods, and contractors which mainly
provide services, respectively).
    The wage rates for laborers and mechanics “shall be
based on the wages the Secretary of Labor determines to be
prevailing for the corresponding classes of laborers and
mechanics employed on projects of a character similar to the
contract work in the civil subdivision of the State in which
the work is to be performed.” 40 U.S.C. § 3142(b).
    For contractors who furnish goods, employees must be
paid “not less than the prevailing minimum wages . . . for
individuals employed in similar work or in the particular or
similar industries or groups of industries currently operating
in the locality in which the materials, supplies, articles, or
equipment are to be manufactured or furnished under the
contract.” 41 U.S.C. § 6502(1).
    And for contractors who mainly provide services,
Congress directed agencies to include a provision in each
contract stating that “the minimum wage to be paid to each
class of service employee . . . [is] in accordance with
prevailing rates in the locality.” Id. § 6703(1).
    Each statute authorizes a minimum wage mandate. This
is exactly the kind of statutory language we look for to
determine whether Congress authorized such a policy. And
this is the kind of language that does not exist in the FPASA.
    Further, the Government’s preferred interpretation
would effectively nullify these statutes.          “It is a
commonplace of statutory construction that the specific
governs the general.           That is particularly true
where . . . Congress has enacted a comprehensive scheme
and has deliberately targeted specific problems with specific
solutions.” RadLAX Gateway Hotel, LLC v. Amalgamated
24                 STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


Bank, 566 U.S. 639, 645 (2012) (cleaned up). And “[w]hen
a statute limits a thing to be done in a particular mode, it
includes the negative of any other mode.” Nat’l R.R.
Passenger Corp. v. Nat’l Ass’n of R.R. Passengers, 414 U.S.
453, 458 (1974) (quotation marks omitted). Congress made
a specific determination about the minimum wage for federal
contractors in these three prior statutes, and this
determination should govern. It belies logic that Congress
adopted the FPASA as a wholesale override of these long-
standing statutes governing specific sectors of federal
contracts.
    The district court held (and the dissent agrees) that the
minimum wage mandate does not conflict with these three
statutes because they set minimum wage rates, not maximum
wage rates, and they do not impose “unambiguous
commands” that wages cannot be set at a higher rate by other
federal laws. Arizona, 2023 WL 120966, at *8.
    This is faulty logic. When Congress unambiguously
commanded that the minimum wages paid to federal
contractors be at the local prevailing wage, it recognized that
wage rates drastically vary across states. For example, it
does not make sense to require federal contractors in
Pocatello, Idaho to pay the same minimum wage as federal
contractors in San Francisco. Cf. S. Packaging & Storage
Co. v. United States, 618 F.2d 1088, 1092 (4th Cir. 1980).
The wage mandate effectively nullifies the statutes that
consider local market realities because the nationwide floor
exceeds the minimum wage in every Appellant State. See
State Minimum Wage Laws, supra. Congress chose not to
force contractors to pay wages above the local prevailing
rates, perhaps because of negative economic consequences.
                       STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                         25


    In sum, the President cannot issue an executive order
instructing agencies to carry out the minimum wage mandate
by pointing to any of the FPASA’s operative sections. And
DOL similarly cannot issue a minimum wage rule under any
of the FPASA’s operative sections. 5
                                   B
    Appellants contend that the minimum wage mandate
violates the major questions doctrine because the FPASA
lacks a clear statement, and the minimum wage mandate is
economically and politically significant.
    “Where the statute at issue is one that confers authority
upon an administrative agency,” there are certain
“‘extraordinary cases’ that . . . provide a ‘reason to hesitate
before concluding that Congress’ meant to confer such
authority.” West Virginia v. Env’t Prot. Agency, 597 U.S.
697, 721 (2022) (quoting Food & Drug Admin. v. Brown &

5
  The minimum wage mandate also exceeds the President’s authority
under FPASA by including within its scope subcontractors, lessors,
licensees, and permittees. See 86 Fed. Reg. at 22,835. The Government
argues that Appellants lack standing to challenge the executive order as
it pertains to these entities because Appellants do not allege that any of
their arms are federal subcontractors, lessors, licensees, or permittees.
But the district court correctly held that the states had standing because
it was “more than merely speculative” that in-state companies paying
higher wages would make larger deductions from their “state taxable
incomes” and cause the states to “incur unemployment insurance
expenses.” Arizona, 2023 WL 120966, at *4; cf. Dep’t of Com. v. New
York, 588 U.S. 752, 768 (2019). The Government argues that the
Supreme Court’s subsequent decision in United States v. Texas, 599 U.S.
670 (2023), defeats that standing argument. But that case pertained to
prosecutorial inaction where the injury was not redressable. Id. at 678.
In this case, the injury is redressable. The requested injunction will
relieve such entities from paying higher wages and making larger
deductions from their taxable incomes.
26                 STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


Williamson Tobacco Corp., 529 U.S. 120, 159–60 (2000)).
In such cases, the agency “must point to ‘clear congressional
authorization’” for the proposed regulation. Id. at 723
(quoting Util. Air Regul. Grp. v. Env’t Prot. Agency, 573
U.S. 302, 324 (2014)).
    The Supreme Court has adopted a two-prong framework
to analyze the major questions doctrine. First, we ask
whether the agency action is “unheralded” and represents a
“transformative expansion” in the agency’s authority in the
vague language of a long-extant, but rarely used, statute. Id.
at 724–25 (citations omitted). Second, we ask if the
regulation is of “vast economic and political significance”
and “extraordinary” enough to trigger the doctrine. Id. at
716, 721 (citations omitted). If both prongs are met, the
major questions doctrine applies, and we should greet the
agency’s assertion of authority with “skepticism” and
require the agency to identify “clear congressional
authorization” for its action. Id. at 724 (citation omitted).
    Here, we conclude that the first prong of this analysis is
not met because the Executive’s reliance on the FPASA for
the wage mandate is not a “transformative” expansion of its
authority. See id. President Obama used the FPASA to issue
a federal contractor minimum wage, and President Trump
issued an executive order that maintained the minimum
wage requirement excepting recreational services. Exec.
Order No. 13658, 79 Fed. Reg. 9851; Exec. Order No.
13838, 83 Fed. Reg. 25,341. And the relevant provisions of
the FPASA have been regularly invoked. See West Virginia,
597 U.S. at 725. For example, Presidents have used the
FPASA to direct agencies to include contract provisions
prohibiting discrimination, requiring contractors to inform
employees that they have a right to not pay union dues, and
requiring contractors to provide employees with paid sick
                     STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                       27


leave. Exec. Order No. 11246, 30 Fed. Reg. 12,319 (Sept.
28, 1965); Exec. Order No. 12800, 57 Fed. Reg. 12,985
(Apr. 13, 1992); Exec. Order No. 13706, 80 Fed. Reg.
54,697 (Sept. 7, 2015). 6
                                 C
     Appellants’ third main argument on appeal is that the
district court erred in concluding that DOL’s implementing
rule is not subject to arbitrary-or-capricious review under the
APA. The APA requires courts to “hold unlawful and set
aside agency action . . . found to be arbitrary, capricious, an
abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with
law.” 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A). We conclude that DOL’s
implementing rule is subject to arbitrary-or-capricious
review and that DOL acted arbitrarily or capriciously when
it failed to consider alternatives.
                                  1
    The district court erroneously held that the APA does not
apply to DOL’s rule implementing President Biden’s
executive order. The district court reasoned that because the
President’s actions are not reviewable under the APA, a
court cannot review an agency’s implementing rule when the
executive order gives agencies no policy discretion.
Arizona, 2023 WL 120966, at *9–11 (citing Franklin v.
Massachusetts, 505 U.S. 788, 800–01 (1992)). But the
district court’s holding defies fundamental principles of
administrative law. It also conflicts with the plain language


6
 Because we conclude that the major questions doctrine does not apply
under the standard established in West Virginia, we do not address the
Government’s separate argument that this doctrine does not apply to
congressional delegations of authority to the President, as opposed to
executive agencies.
28                  STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


of the APA and existing precedent. 7 And it would
shockingly allow Presidents to insulate any desired
rulemaking from judicial review with the single stroke of an
executive pen.
    First, the APA’s language is plain. The APA applies to
any “final agency action.” 5 U.S.C. § 704. No language in
the APA prevents or excepts review of an agency action that
implements a presidential action. See, e.g., id. Thus, as a
textual matter, final agency actions, even if implementing an
executive order, are subject to judicial review under the
APA.
    In Franklin, the Supreme Court held that the President’s
actions are not reviewable under the APA because the
President does not meet the definition of “agency.” 505 U.S.
at 800–01. The Court reasoned that although the President
is not explicitly excluded from the definition of “agency” in
5 U.S.C. §§ 701(b)(1) and 551(1), his unique constitutional
position is enough to overcome this “textual silence.” Id. at
800. The Government encourages us to extend Franklin to
cover final agency actions that adopt policy decisions issued
by the President in executive orders. But expanding
Franklin to cover such actions—taken by an agency—
contradicts the text of the APA. Even a purposive approach
to interpreting the APA undermines such an expansion. Cf.
Kathryn E. Kovacs, Constraining the Statutory President, 98
WASH. U. L. REV. 63, 86–88 (2020) (arguing that even the




7
 The Tenth Circuit majority in Bradford reached a similarly wrong
conclusion. 101 F.4th at 731. For reasons we explain, we are
unpersuaded by the Tenth Circuit majority.
                       STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                         29


exclusion of the President from “agency” under Franklin
conflicts with the history of the APA). 8
    Second, such an expansion of Franklin is not supported
by existing precedent. The Supreme Court has never
excepted a final rule from APA review because it carried out
a presidential directive. Nor have we—or any other circuit.
The Government points only to two district court cases in
support of its argument. Feds for Med. Freedom v. Biden,
581 F. Supp. 3d 826, 835 n.6 (S.D. Tex. 2022), vacated and
remanded on other grounds, 30 F.4th 503 (5th Cir. 2022);
Tulare County v. Bush, 185 F. Supp. 2d 18, 29 (D.D.C.
2001). These decisions, like the district court’s decision in
this case, misapprehend the APA.
   The D.C. Circuit has noted that just because an agency’s
regulations are based on an executive order, this “hardly
seems to insulate them from judicial review under the APA,
even if the validity of the [executive order] were thereby
drawn into question.” Chamber of Com. of U.S. v. Reich, 74
F.3d 1322, 1327 (D.C. Cir. 1996). And we have subjected
agency actions that incorporate a presidential directive to
APA review (and specifically to arbitrary-or-capricious


8
  The text of the APA also suggests that Franklin was wrong. The APA’s
definition of “agency” includes “each authority of the Government of the
United States, whether or not it is within or subject to review by another
agency,” but does not include Congress, the courts, or the governments
of the territories, possessions, or the District of Columbia. 5 U.S.C.
§ 701(b)(1). The President is an “authority of the Government,” and he
is not excluded from the definition. See id. Even when we are bound by
precedent, precedent not in accordance with the text of the APA should
not be expanded. See Garza v. Idaho, 586 U.S. 232, 259 (2019)
(Thomas, J., dissenting) (when precedent misconstrues statutory text as
an “original matter, the Court should tread carefully before extending”
it).
30                 STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


review). See E. Bay Sanctuary Covenant v. Trump, 932 F.3d
742, 773 (9th Cir. 2018) (“The Rule [incorporating the
presidential Proclamation] together with the Proclamation is
arbitrary and capricious . . . .”); Hawaii v. Trump, 878 F.3d
662, 681 (9th Cir. 2017) (per curiam) (“[B]ecause these
agencies have ‘consummat[ed]’ their implementation of the
Proclamation, from which ‘legal consequences will flow,’
their actions are ‘final’ and therefore reviewable under the
APA.” (quoting Bennett v. Spear, 520 U.S. 154, 177–78
(1997))), vacated in part on other grounds by Trump v.
Hawaii, 585 U.S. 667, 682 (2018).
     Third, the district court’s reasoning appears to rest
chiefly on the policy justification that agencies would be put
in the “untenable position” of having to follow mandatory
executive orders and engage in APA-required deliberation
about whether to choose a policy alternative unavailable
under the executive order. See Arizona, 2023 WL 120966,
at *10. Of course, policy justifications cannot supersede
statutory text. There is also nothing untenable about
analyzing the impacts, costs, and benefits of alternative
policy options when issuing a rule that implements an
executive order. And the district court’s reasoning ignores
the dynamic reality of executive branch policy development,
which often involves back-and-forth debate between the
President and his agents. For example, DOL could have
complied with the APA’s requirements to consider
alternatives by analyzing the economic impacts of issuing a
higher minimum wage. If the rule’s productivity benefits
are as large as DOL estimates, why not raise the federal
contractor minimum wage to $20 an hour? Or $50 an hour?
It is plausible to imagine that the Secretary of Labor, after
analyzing the benefits and costs of this policy alternative,
could persuade the President to adopt an even higher
                   STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                  31


minimum wage.        Detailing alternatives provides the
President with a better understanding of the policy
outcomes, gives him a chance to change his mind, and
informs future decisions. In other words, it does exactly
what the APA is designed to do: encourage reasoned and
informed policymaking.
    Indeed, countervailing policy justifications caution
against exempting rules implementing an executive order
from APA review. To hold as the Government urges would
allow presidential administrations to issue agency
regulations that evade APA-mandated accountability by
simply issuing an executive order first. Agencies would be
permitted to implement regulations without the public
involvement, transparency, and deliberation required under
the APA.
    In sum, “courts should hesitate to disturb the legislative
bargain embodied in the APA.” Kovacs, supra, at 84. This
is especially true where the best justification for departing
from the text of the APA is a policy reason that does not
withstand scrutiny.
                              2
     DOL acted arbitrarily and capriciously when it
overlooked alternatives to the $15 per hour minimum wage
mandate. “As the APA requires that agencies engage in
reasoned decisionmaking, the agency had an obligation to
consider its other obligations and any alternatives, even if it
could properly end up rejecting them.” Nat’l Urb. League v.
Ross, 977 F.3d 770, 779 (9th Cir. 2020) (cleaned up). An
agency’s obligation to consider alternatives “is well settled”
and includes “a duty . . . to give a reasoned explanation for
its rejection of such alternatives.” City of Brookings Mun.
32                 STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


Tel. Co. v. F.C.C., 822 F.2d 1153, 1169 (D.C. Cir. 1987)
(internal quotation marks and citation omitted).
    DOL admits that it did not consider “modify[ing] the
amount of the . . . minimum wage rate, chang[ing] the
effective date for the wage rate, or phas[ing] in the wage rate
over a number of years” despite receiving comments with
these suggestions. See 86 Fed. Reg. at 67,130. The dissent
counters that DOL did not act arbitrarily or capriciously by
declining to consider such alternatives “because those
choices would have contravened the President’s clear
directive.” Dissent at 61. But that “clear directive” gives
DOL considerable discretion. The Secretary of Labor must
“issue regulations” to implement the executive order, which
“shall include both definitions of relevant terms and, as
appropriate, exclusions from the requirements of this order.”
86 Fed. Reg. 22,836. Thus, the executive order does not
exempt DOL from basic APA requirements of reasoned
decisionmaking. And as we have explained, considering
alternatives would not necessarily restrict DOL’s
conclusion. Because the Government acknowledges DOL
did not consider alternatives, the DOL rule violates the APA.
We therefore vacate the rule under the APA.
                              IV
    In light of our conclusion that Executive Order 14026
and its implementing regulations exceeded the authority
Congress granted the Executive Branch under the FPASA
and that the implementing regulations are arbitrary and
capricious under the APA, we also conclude that the district
court abused its discretion in denying Appellants a
preliminary injunction. Assurance Wireless USA, L.P., 100
F.4th at 1031. Thus, we reverse the district court’s order
granting the Government’s motion to dismiss, vacate the
                   STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                  33


district court’s order denying the injunction, and remand for
further proceedings.
  REVERSED IN PART, VACATED IN PART, AND
REMANDED.


R. NELSON, Circuit Judge, concurring:

    As the majority concludes, the minimum wage mandate
does not violate the major questions doctrine because it is
not a “transformative expansion” of the President’s authority
under the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act
(FPASA). West Virginia v. Env’t Prot. Agency, 597 U.S.
697, 724 (2022) (quoting Util. Air Regul. Grp. v. Env’t Prot.
Agency (UARG), 573 U.S. 302, 324 (2014)). I write
separately to explore a more fundamental question: Does the
major questions doctrine apply to statutes that delegate
authority to the President? The answer, in my view, is yes.
The Supreme Court has never suggested that the President is
exempt from major questions analysis. And it makes little
sense to think that he is. Broad legislative delegations to the
Executive Branch—whether to the President or to
administrative agencies—are inherently suspect. And by
any measure, the minimum wage mandate is a question of
“vast economic and political significance.” Id. at 716
(quoting UARG, 573 U.S. at 324).
                               I
    Much ink has been spilled on the “source and status” of
the major questions doctrine. Biden v. Nebraska, 143 S. Ct.
2355, 2376 (2023) (Barrett, J., concurring). Some view the
doctrine as a substantive canon rooted in non-delegation
principles. See Nat’l Fed’n of Indep. Bus. v. Dep’t of Lab.,
34                 STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


OSHA, 595 U.S. 109, 124 (2022) (per curiam) (Gorsuch, J.,
concurring) (the major questions doctrine and non-
delegation doctrine are both “designed to protect the
separation of powers”). Others understand the doctrine as a
linguistic canon—“an interpretive tool reflecting ‘common
sense as to the manner in which Congress is likely to
delegate a policy decision of such economic and political
magnitude to an administrative agency.’” Nebraska, 143
S. Ct. at 2378 (Barrett, J., concurring) (quoting Food & Drug
Admin. v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 529 U.S.
120, 133 (2000)). The Supreme Court in West Virginia—its
clearest explanation of the major questions doctrine—does
not take a side on that debate. 597 U.S. at 723 (the doctrine’s
justifications include “both separation of powers principles
and a practical understanding of legislative intent”).
Regardless of its source, the major questions doctrine does
not yield because Congress delegated authority to the
President and not an agency.
                              A
    Let’s assume major questions is fundamentally a
separation of powers doctrine. On that view, the doctrine
keeps Congress in its constitutional lane, preventing it from
delegating “fundamental policy decisions” to the Executive
Branch. Indus. Union Dep’t, AFL-CIO v. Am. Petrol. Inst.,
448 U.S. 607, 687 (1980) (Rehnquist, J., concurring in the
judgment); see U.S. Const. art. I, § 1.
    It makes no difference which Executive Branch officer
has received an unlawful delegation: the “entire ‘executive
Power’ belongs to the President alone.” Seila Law LLC v.
Consumer Fin. Prot. Bureau, 591 U.S. 197, 213 (2020)
(quoting U.S. Const. art. II, § 1). Yet “it would be
‘impossib[le]’ for ‘one man’ to ‘perform all the great
                      STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                         35


business of the State,’” thus why the President enlists
subordinates to assist him in “faithfully execut[ing]” the
laws. Id. (quoting 30 Writings of George Washington 334
(J. Fitzpatrick ed. 1939); U.S. Const. art. II, § 3). But the
“buck stops with the President.” Free Enter. Fund v. Pub.
Co. Acct. Oversight Bd., 561 U.S. 477, 493 (2010). Article
II “makes a single President responsible for the actions of
the Executive Branch”—whether they stem from the White
House or a federal agency. 1 Id. at 496–97 (quotation
omitted); see Louisiana v. Biden, 55 F.4th 1017, 1031 n.40
(5th Cir. 2022) (“[D]elegations to the President and
delegations to an agency should be treated the same under
the major questions doctrine.”).
   Indeed, a unitary executive is entrenched in our
constitutional structure. The Founders envisioned a system
in which the executive power is concentrated in a single
President who does not make the laws, but executes them.
See The Federalist No. 51 (James Madison), Nos. 70, 77
(Alexander Hamilton).       The Supreme Court’s major
questions cases recognize that basic premise: “Under our

1
 Article II also vests the President with certain inherent constitutional
powers. See Trump v. United States, 144 S. Ct. 2312, 2327–28 (2024).
For example, the President has constitutionally derived authority over
pardons and many aspects of foreign affairs. Id. That authority “is
sometimes ‘conclusive and preclusive,’” and the President “may act even
when the measures he takes are ‘incompatible with the expressed or
implied will of Congress.’” Id. at 2327 (quoting Youngstown Sheet &
Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U.S. 579, 637, 638 (1952) (Jackson, J.,
concurring)). It follows that the major questions doctrine has less force
when Congress delegates authority to the President in areas where he
already enjoys innate constitutional power. See Youngstown, 343 U.S.
at 635–37 (Jackson, J., concurring). But this is not such a case. The
President’s procurement authority stems from the FPASA, not the
Constitution.
36                 STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


system of government, Congress makes laws and the
President, acting at times through agencies . . . ‘faithfully
execute[s]’ them.” UARG, 573 U.S. at 327 (quoting U.S.
Const. art. II, § 3). Unconstitutional delegations are no less
problematic when they are directed to the individual who
ultimately “bears responsibility for the actions of the many
departments and agencies within the Executive Branch.”
Trump, 144 S. Ct. at 2327.
    Distinguishing between presidential and agency
delegations also ignores the realities of administrative
decision-making. The President is likely to be closely
involved in major policies, even if they are ultimately
promulgated by an agency. Take student loans. President
Biden campaigned on a promise to provide student debt
relief for low- to middle-income borrowers. Fact Sheet:
President Biden Announces Student Loan Relief for
Borrowers Who Need It Most, The White House (Aug. 24,
2022), https://perma.cc/492Y-5LZ9. After taking office,
President Biden announced, “that the Department of
Education will provide targeted debt relief to address the
financial harms of the [COVID-19] pandemic, fulfilling [his]
campaign commitment.” Id. Six days later, the Department
of Education published a memorandum interpreting federal
law to give the Education Secretary authority “to effectuate
a program of targeted loan cancellation directed at
addressing the financial harms of the COVID-19 pandemic.”
Notice of Debt Cancellation Legal Memorandum, 87 Fed.
Reg. 52,944 (Aug. 30, 2022). That agency interpretation—
which satisfied a presidential campaign promise—was later
found to violate the major questions doctrine. Nebraska, 143
S. Ct. at 2372–75. The same can be said of the Department
of Labor’s (DOL) implementing rule. The President
                      STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                       37


campaigned on this issue and directed the Department to
implement a rule by Executive Order.
                                  B
    Now assume the major questions doctrine operates as a
linguistic canon that “situates text in context.” Nebraska,
143 S. Ct. at 2378 (Barrett, J., concurring). Here, it would
be even stranger to treat the President differently. We
regularly interpret statutory grants of authority. In so doing,
we recognize that Congress does not “hide elephants in
mouseholes.” Whitman v. Am. Trucking Ass’ns, 531 U.S.
457, 468 (2001); see also U.S. Telecom Ass’n v. FCC, 855
F.3d 381, 419 (D.C. Cir. 2017) (Kavanaugh, J., dissenting
from denial of rehearing en banc) (the Supreme Court
presumes “that Congress intends to make major policy
decisions itself, not leave those decisions to agencies”).
Why would our normal interpretive process turn on the
identity of the Executive Branch officer to whom Congress
delegated power? An implausible reading of a statute is no
less implausible when that statute confers authority on the
President versus an agency.
                                  II
    The Government would have us hold that the major
questions doctrine does not apply to presidential action. It
relies on our now-vacated decision in Mayes v. Biden, which
concluded for the first time that the President is categorically
exempt from major questions analysis. 2 67 F.4th 921, 932–


2
  Mayes broke from three other circuits that have applied the major
questions doctrine to actions by the President. See Louisiana, 55 F.4th
at 1031 n.40; Georgia v. President of the U.S., 46 F.4th 1283, 1295–96
(11th Cir. 2022) (Grant, J.); Kentucky v. Biden, 23 F.4th 585, 606–08
(6th Cir. 2022).
38                 STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


34 (9th Cir. 2023), vacated as moot, 89 F.4th 1186 (9th Cir.
2023).
    Mayes described the Supreme Court’s 2014 decision in
Utility Air as the “current form” of the major questions
doctrine, even though West Virginia was decided ten months
before Mayes. Id. at 932–33. Casting West Virginia aside,
Mayes described the doctrine as “motivated by skepticism of
agency interpretations that ‘would bring about an enormous
and transformative expansion in . . . regulatory authority
without clear congressional authorization.’” Id. at 933
(quoting UARG, 573 U.S. at 324) (emphasis added). Those
concerns, the panel reasoned, do not apply to the President
because he is more politically accountable than federal
agencies. Id.
    No court has ever embraced Mayes’ political
accountability theory. And no court is likely to after West
Virginia, which does not reference “accountability” a single
time in the majority opinion. See 597 U.S. at 706–35. True,
Justice Gorsuch touched on the democratic ills of divesting
legislative power to administrative agencies. Id. at 739
(Gorsuch, J., concurring). Justice Gorsuch reasoned that
unchecked congressional delegations to the Executive
Branch risk legislation that reflects “nothing more than the
will of the current President.” Id. And it would be “worse
yet” if legislation embodied “the will of unelected officials
barely responsive to” the President. Id.
    That distinction makes sense—the President is
politically accountable to the people, while his subordinates
are unelected. But under separation of powers principles, it
is a distinction without a difference. Again, “the executive
power of the government was vested in one person”—the
President. Myers v. United States, 272 U.S. 52, 116 (1926).
                   STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                 39


So if major questions cases “have arisen from all corners of
the administrative state,” as the Supreme Court has
observed, then the doctrine should apply whether a
delegation is directed to the President or one of his
subordinate officials. Nebraska, 143 S. Ct. at 2375 (quoting
West Virginia, 597 U.S. at 721); see Gonzales v. Oregon,
546 U.S. 243, 267 (2006) (the major questions doctrine
applies to a congressional delegation to the Attorney
General).
    In any event, a statutory delegation to the President must
be valid “regardless of how likely the public is to hold the
Executive Branch politically accountable.” See Brown &
Williamson, 529 U.S. at 161. The President is more
politically accountable than his agencies, but that does not
fix an unlawful delegation. Nor does it correct what is
otherwise a linguistically implausible reading of a statute.
The Constitution places “carefully defined limits on the
power of each Branch”—political accountability aside. INS
v. Chadha, 462 U.S. 919, 958 (1983).
                             III
    Applying the major questions doctrine here, we reason
that because multiple Presidents have invoked the FPASA to
issue a wage mandate, President Biden’s mandate is not a
“transformative” expansion of his authority. Maj. Op. at 26–
27 (quoting West Virginia, 597 U.S. at 724). But that
conclusion is only part of the story. Executive action does
not implicate the major questions doctrine unless it involves
a question of “vast economic and political significance.”
West Virginia, 597 U.S. at 716 (quoting UARG, 573 U.S. at
324). The minimum wage mandate satisfies that standard.
40                 STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


                              A
    Start with economic significance. The major questions
doctrine applies when the Executive claims authority over “a
significant portion of the American economy,” Nebraska,
143 S. Ct. at 2373 (quoting UARG, 573 U.S. at 324), or
requires “billions of dollars in spending” by private entities,
King v. Burwell, 576 U.S. 473, 485 (2015). The Department
of Labor estimates that the minimum wage mandate will cost
federal contractors $1.7 billion annually. Increasing the
Minimum Wage for Federal Contractors, 86 Fed. Reg.
67,194 (Nov. 24, 2021). Over the next decade, DOL predicts
that federal contractors will spend more than $18 billion to
comply with the mandate. Id. at 67,210.
    Those figures are “significant” in any sense of the word.
They exceed the Biden Administration’s own $200 million
annual cutoff for “significant regulatory actions.” Exec.
Order No. 14094, 88 Fed. Reg. 21,879 (Apr. 6, 2023). And
the minimum wage mandate would similarly qualify as a
“major rule” under the Congressional Review Act because it
has “an annual effect on the economy of $100,000,000 or
more.” 8 U.S.C. § 804(2)(A). As the majority explains, the
mandate also causes “a major increase in costs or prices for
consumers, individual industries, Federal, State, or local
government agencies, or geographic regions.”              Id.
§ 804(2)(B); see Maj. Op. at 19, 22–25; 86 Fed. Reg. 67,206
(“relevant consumer for procurement contracts is the Federal
Government” and “Government expenditures may rise”
because of the mandate). “Given these circumstances, there
is every reason to ‘hesitate before concluding that Congress’
meant to confer” on the President the authority to issue a
minimum wage mandate. West Virginia, 597 U.S. at 725
(quoting Brown & Williamson, 529 U.S. at 159).
                   STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                  41


     The district court concluded that the minimum wage
mandate is not economically significant enough to involve a
major question. See Arizona v. Walsh, No. CV-22-00213,
2023 WL 120966, at *8 (D. Ariz. Jan. 6, 2023). It noted that
the Clean Power Plan’s $1 trillion reduction in GDP, at issue
in West Virginia, significantly eclipsed the cost of President
Biden’s wage mandate. Id. Same with the $50 billion the
Supreme Court considered a “reasonable proxy” for the
nationwide eviction moratorium that flunked the major
questions doctrine in Alabama Association of Realtors v.
Department of Health & Human Services, 594 U.S. 758,
764–65 (2021) (per curiam). Id. But this kind of side-by-
side comparison cannot be dispositive. The Supreme Court
has never set a floor on what qualifies as economically vast.
And in at least one major questions case the Court engaged
in little economic analysis at all. See Nat’l Fed’n of Indep.
Bus., 595 U.S. at 117. The minimum wage mandate is less
economically significant than other major questions, but that
does not control the analysis. Thus, the DOL implementing
rule is economically significant.
                              B
    The minimum wage mandate is also politically
significant. The Supreme Court finds it telling when the
Executive’s asserted authority “has ‘conveniently enabled it
to enact a program’ that Congress has chosen not to enact
itself.” Nebraska, 143 S. Ct. at 2373 (quoting West Virginia,
597 U.S. at 731) (internal alteration omitted). Such
maneuvers are a sign the Executive “is attempting to work
around the legislative process to resolve for itself a question
of great political significance.” West Virginia, 597 U.S. at
743 (Gorsuch, J., concurring) (cleaned up).
42                  STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


    The President did just that here. During his 2020
campaign, President Biden promised to raise the nationwide
minimum wage for all workers to $15 an hour. Statement by
President Joe Biden on $15 Minimum Wage for Federal
Workers and Contractors Going into Effect, The White
House (Jan. 28, 2022), https://perma.cc/QLS2-R8WD. That
proposal failed on the Senate floor in a bipartisan vote.
Emily Cochrane & Catie Edmondson, Minimum Wage
Increase Fails as 7 Democrats Vote Against the Measure,
N.Y. Times (Mar. 5, 2021), https://perma.cc/M7UQ-
Z8WW. Later, once the DOL implementing rule took effect,
President Biden described it as “a down payment” on his
original campaign pledge. Statement by President Joe
Biden, supra.
    The minimum wage mandate’s detour from the
legislative process is no different from the student loan
forgiveness program in Nebraska or the Clean Power Plan in
West Virginia. In both cases, the Supreme Court noted that
Congress considered and rejected the challenged policies
before the President resorted to legislating by executive
order. See Nebraska, 143 S. Ct. at 2373–74; West Virginia,
597 U.S. at 731–32. Like student loans and greenhouse gas
emissions, minimum wages have long “been the subject of
an earnest and profound debate across the country,” making
the President’s unilateral attempt to settle that debate “all the
more suspect.” West Virginia, 597 U.S. at 732 (quoting
Gonzales, 546 U.S. at 267–68).
                               IV
    No matter the source of the major questions doctrine,
nothing excuses the President from its commands. And the
minimum wage mandate is economically and politically
significant. While the doctrine does not apply here for other
                  STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                43


reasons, the faulty reasoning in the vacated Mayes opinion
and by the district court below should not be repeated in
future cases.


SANCHEZ, Circuit Judge, dissenting:

    It is well-settled that “the Government enjoys the
unrestricted power to produce its own supplies, to determine
those with whom it will deal, and to fix the terms and
conditions upon which it will make needed purchases.”
Perkins v. Lukens Steel Co., 310 U.S. 113, 127 (1940).
Consistent with that power, Presidents have invoked the
Federal Property and Administrative Services Act
(“Procurement Act” or “FPASA”) to direct federal agencies
to include many different kinds of restrictive clauses in
federal contracts. For example, Presidents have used the
Procurement Act to require federal contractors to commit to
affirmative action programs when racial discrimination
threatened contractors’ efficiency; to adhere to wage and
price guidelines to combat inflation in the economy; to
ensure compliance with immigration and labor laws; and to
attain sick leave parity with non-contracting employers. See
Mayes v. Biden, 67 F.4th 921, 938 (9th Cir. 2023), vacated
as moot, 89 F.4th 1186 (9th Cir. 2023). When challenged,
the President’s authority under the Procurement Act to set
the foregoing terms and conditions in federal contracts has
been uniformly upheld by federal courts. See id. at 936–38.
    Executive Order 14026 is of the same vein. It directs
federal agencies to enter into certain contracts only with
companies that will agree to pay their employees at or above
a $15 hourly minimum wage for work on those contracts.
President Obama issued the first such order requiring
44                 STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


minimum-wage clauses to be inserted in certain contracts
with the federal government, and President Trump
maintained it with a limited carveout for contracts in
connection with seasonal recreational services on federal
lands. President Biden’s executive order, in turn, reflects his
determination that the federal government benefits by
paying employees sufficiently for their work on federal
contracts because higher pay enhances productivity and
increases the quality of their work.
    Because the plain text of the Procurement Act,
longstanding judicial precedent, and executive practice since
its enactment all confirm that President Biden has the
authority to direct federal agencies in this manner, and
because the Department of Labor (the “Department”) did not
act arbitrarily or capriciously by implementing a binding
presidential directive, I respectfully dissent.
                               I.
    A fundamental tenet of our constitutional order is that the
President’s authority to act “must stem either from an act of
Congress or from the Constitution itself.” Youngstown Sheet
& Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U.S. 579, 585 (1952). When, as
here, the President issues an executive order based on
congressionally delegated authority, the order has force of
law if there is “a nexus between the [order] and some
delegation of the requisite legislative authority by
Congress.” Chrysler Corp. v. Brown, 441 U.S. 281, 304
(1979). The President’s executive order does not have to be
tied to a specific statutory provision. See id. at 308 (“This is
not to say that any grant of legislative authority to a federal
agency by Congress must be specific before regulations
promulgated pursuant to it can be binding on courts in a
manner akin to statutes.”). The pertinent inquiry, the
                      STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                        45


Supreme Court explains, is whether executive action is
“reasonably within the contemplation” of any “statutory
grants of authority.” Id. at 306 (emphasis omitted); see also
Chen v. I.N.S., 95 F.3d 801, 805 (9th Cir. 1996) (executive
orders based on congressionally delegated authority must be
“grounded in a statutory mandate or congressional
delegation of authority”).
    Executive Order 14026 is lawful because it is
“reasonably within the contemplation” of the Procurement
Act. Chrysler Corp., 441 U.S. at 306. The Procurement Act
gives federal agencies broad discretion to “specify [their]
needs” in negotiations with federal contractors and “include
restrictive provisions or conditions” in their solicitations. 41
U.S.C. § 3306(a)(1)(A)-(a)(2)(B); see also 41 U.S.C.
§§ 3101(a), 3703(c); Perkins, 310 U.S. at 127. And it gives
the President broad discretion to direct federal agencies in
the use of their statutory power. See 40 U.S.C. § 121(a).
Executive Order 14026 comfortably fits within the
President’s broad statutory authority.
                                  A.
   The Procurement Act codifies and organizes the
Executive Branch’s traditional procurement and contracting
power. 1 The Act has the stated goal of “provid[ing] the
Federal Government with an economical and efficient

1
  Before the Procurement Act, no centralized agency organized the
procurement activities of the federal government, which led to “shocking
instances of wasteful practices and poor business management” in the
government’s supply operations. See Georgia v. President of the U.S.,
46 F.4th 1283, 1293 (11th Cir. 2022) (Grant, J.) (quoting Commission
on Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government,
Concluding Report 2 (1949)). Congress passed the Procurement Act to
fix that problem. See id.
46                 STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


system” for “[p]rocuring and supplying property and
nonpersonal services, and performing related functions
including contracting” and “setting specifications.” 40
U.S.C. § 101(1); see also Federal Property and
Administrative Services Act of 1949, Pub. L. No. 81-152,
§ 2, 63 Stat. 377, 378.
    To achieve that goal, the Procurement Act codified the
federal agencies’ traditional authority to negotiate federal
contracts. Section 3101(a), for example, vests executive
agencies with the authority to “make purchases and contracts
for property and services” consistent with the “implementing
regulations” of the Administrator. 41 U.S.C. § 3101(a).
This provision confers on “the civilian agencies of the
government” broad “authority to negotiate contracts.” 1B
John Cosgrove McBride & Thomas J. Touhey, Government
Contracts: Law, Administration & Procedures § 9.10
(Walter A. I. Wilson ed., 2024). Section 3306(a), in turn,
recognizes agencies’ authority to “specify [their] needs” and
authorizes them to “include restrictive provisions or
conditions” in their solicitations “to the extent necessary to
satisfy the needs of the executive agency or as authorized by
law.” Id. § 3306(a)(1)(A)-(a)(2)(B). Section 3703(c) directs
agencies to award contracts “to the responsible source whose
proposal is most advantageous to the Federal Government,”
considering cost and “other factors included in the
solicitation.” Id. § 3703(c). In sum, federal agencies enjoy
wide latitude to determine their own needs and select the
contractors who provide the federal government with the
best value. See Perkins, 310 U.S. at 127; see also Harmonia
Holdings Grp., LLC v. United States, Alethix, LLC, 999 F.3d
1397, 1407 (Fed. Cir. 2021).
   The President, in turn, sits atop the federal government’s
procurement system and has both “necessary flexibility and
                       STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                          47


‘broad-ranging authority’” to set government-wide
procurement policies. UAW-Lab. Emp. & Training Corp. v.
Chao, 325 F.3d 360, 366 (D.C. Cir. 2003) (citation omitted).
In the key provision here, the Procurement Act authorizes
the President to “prescribe policies and directives that the
President considers necessary to carry out” the Act’s
subtitles—including the above-mentioned provisions
authorizing agencies to specify the terms of federal
contracts—and directs that the “policies must be consistent
with” the Procurement Act. 40 U.S.C. § 121(a).
    The statutory power to direct federal agencies as they
specify the terms of federal contracts is a key lever that
presidents of both parties have used to further their policy
agendas. As Mayes explained, “Presidents have used the
Procurement Act to require federal contractors to commit to
affirmative action programs when racial discrimination was
threatening contractors’ efficiency; to adhere to wage and
price guidelines to help combat inflation in the economy; to
ensure compliance with immigration laws; and to attain sick
leave parity with non-contracting employers.” Mayes, 67
F.4th at 938, vacated as moot, 89 F.4th 1186. 2


2
   “[T]he President’s view of his own authority under a statute is not
controlling, but when that view has been acted upon over a substantial
period of time without eliciting congressional reversal, it is ‘entitled to
great respect.’” See AFL-CIO v. Kahn, 618 F.2d 784, 790 (D.C. Cir.
1979) (en banc) (citation omitted); cf. Bd. of Governors of Fed. Rsrv.
Sys. v. First Lincolnwood Corp., 439 U.S. 234, 248 (1978) (“[A]n
agency’s long-standing construction of its statutory mandate is entitled
to great respect, ‘especially when Congress has refused to alter the
administrative construction.’” (citations omitted)). And here, rather than
elicit congressional reversal, Congress recodified the Procurement Act
without any substantive change in 1986, 1996, and 2002. See, e.g., Pub.
48                   STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


    While broad, the President’s authority to direct the
federal agencies’ negotiating power is not unbounded.
Section 121(a) provides an explicit limitation on the
President’s authority: executive action must be “consistent
with” the Procurement Act. 40 U.S.C. § 121(a).
    For the following 70 years after the Act’s enactment in
1949, courts uniformly enforced Section 121(a)’s
consistency requirement by requiring executive orders
issued under the Act to have a “nexus” with the Act’s stated
objectives of “provid[ing] the Federal Government with an
economical and efficient system” for “[p]rocuring and
supplying property and nonpersonal services, and
performing related functions including contracting” and
“setting specifications.” 40 U.S.C. § 101(1); see also Mayes,
67 F.4th at 940, vacated as moot, 89 F.4th 1186. This is a
commonplace method of statutory interpretation. The
Supreme Court itself has looked to a statute’s statement of
purpose as “an appropriate guide to the meaning of the
statute’s operative provisions” and used the statement of
purpose to clarify an otherwise broad delegation of authority
to the Attorney General. See Gundy v. United States, 588
U.S. 128, 142 (2019) (plurality opinion) (alterations
adopted) (quoting A. Scalia & B. Garner, Reading Law: The
Interpretation of Legal Texts 218 (2012)).
    The D.C. Circuit has required a “sufficiently close
nexus” between an executive order based on Section 121(a)
and the Act’s stated goals of promoting economy and
efficiency in federal procurement and contracting.

L. No. 99-500, 100 Stat. 1783, 1783-345 (1986); Pub. L. No. 99-591,
100 Stat. 3341, 3341-345 (1986); Pub. L. No. 104-208, 110 Stat. 3009,
3009-337 (1996); Pub. L. No. 107-217, 116 Stat. 1062, 1063, 1068
(2002).
                      STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                        49


See Chao, 325 F.3d at 366 (quoting Kahn, 618 F.2d at 792).
Similarly, the Fourth Circuit requires an executive order
based on Section 121(a) to be “reasonably related to the
Procurement Act’s purpose.” Liberty Mut. Ins. Co. v.
Friedman, 639 F.2d 164, 170 (4th Cir. 1981).
    In Mayes, a unanimous panel of this court similarly read
the Procurement Act’s statement of objectives in Section
101(1) to supply “a clear textual limiting principle” for the
President’s otherwise broad Section 121(a) rulemaking
authority. Mayes, 67 F.4th at 942, vacated as moot, 89 F.4th
1186. 3 And the Tenth Circuit has since followed suit. See
Bradford v. U.S. Dep’t of Lab., 101 F.4th 707, 721 (10th Cir.
2024) (“FPASA authorizes only ‘policies and directives that
the President considers necessary’ to ‘provide an economical
and efficient system for’ procurement and supply.”
(alterations adopted) (quoting 40 U.S.C. §§ 101(1), 121(a))).
    So here is the bottom line. The President has the
authority and discretion to issue federal government-wide
policies directing federal agencies in the use of their
extensive power to set the terms of federal contracts. See 40
U.S.C. § 121(a); 41 U.S.C. §§ 3306(a), 3101(a), 3703(c).
But any such order must be “consistent with” the
Procurement Act. See 40 U.S.C. § 121(a). And to determine
whether a given directive is, in fact, “consistent with” the
Act, courts look for a nexus to the Act’s stated goals of
improving efficiency and economy in federal procurement
and contracting.

3
  Although Mayes was later vacated as moot, we have repeatedly
recognized that “‘[v]acated opinions remain persuasive, although not
binding, authority.’” Doe I v. Cisco Sys., Inc., 73 F.4th 700, 717 n.10
(9th Cir. 2023) (quoting Spears v. Stewart, 283 F.3d 992, 1017 n.16 (9th
Cir. 2002)).
50                  STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


                               B.
    That background to the Procurement Act’s origination
and statutory scheme leads us to the question at hand: does
President Biden have the authority to direct federal agencies
to include a clause in federal contracts requiring contractors
to pay employees a $15 minimum wage for work on federal
projects? In my view, the answer is an unequivocal yes.
Executive Order 14026 fits comfortably within the
President’s broad authority under the Procurement Act to
direct federal agencies in the use of their statutory power to
specify the terms of federal contracts.
    As explained above, the Procurement Act recognizes that
federal agencies have wide latitude to specify the terms of
federal contracts. See 41 U.S.C. §§ 3101(a), 3306(a),
3703(c); see also Perkins, 310 U.S. at 127. There is no
reason why an agency cannot exercise its statutory authority
to specify that a pre-set minimum level of compensation for
work on federal projects is a “need.” See 41 U.S.C.
§ 3306(a). Even the Plaintiff States agree that Section
121(a) allows the President “to instruct [agencies] on how to
exercise their statutory authority.” Here, President Biden
issued a government-wide directive that, for the particular
categories of covered contracts—most notably contracts “for
services or construction,” 86 Fed. Reg. 22,835, 22,837 (Apr.
27, 2021)—a $15 hourly minimum wage for work on federal
contracts is a need given the “nature of the . . . services to be
acquired.” 41 U.S.C. § 3306(a)(1)(C). Again, Presidents
from Kennedy, Johnson, and Carter to Bush, Obama, and
Trump have long issued comparable government-wide
directives to federal agencies to include all manner of
clauses in federal contracts in furtherance of their economic
agendas. See Mayes, 67 F.4th at 936–38, vacated as moot,
                  STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU               51


89 F.4th 1186. President Biden’s order lawfully functions
the same way.
    Further, Executive Order 14026 has a clear nexus to the
Procurement Act’s goals of increasing economy and
efficiency in federal procurement. See 40 U.S.C. § 101(1).
The Order is based on the President’s judgment that raising
the minimum wage for federal contractors would “bolster
economy and efficiency in Federal procurement” because a
higher minimum wage “enhances worker productivity and
generates higher-quality work by boosting workers’ health,
morale, and effort; reducing absenteeism and turnover; and
lowering supervisory and training costs.” 86 Fed. Reg. at
22,835.
    The Department’s implementing rule provides extensive
support for the reasonableness of the President’s
determination. 86 Fed. Reg. 67,126, 67,212–15 (Nov. 24,
2021). The rule notes, for example, that “higher-paying
contractors may be able to attract higher quality workers
who are able to provide higher quality services, thereby
improving the experience of citizens who engage with these
government contractors”—a view supported by empirical
research. Id. at 67,212. The rule explains, citing numerous
studies, that a higher minimum wage for contractors’
employees could make them more productive, reduce their
rate of turnover, and reduce absenteeism. Id. at 67,213–14.
Twenty-two states and the District of Columbia agree and
have submitted an amicus brief in support of Executive
Order 14026, in which amici observe that “the States and
localities that have raised minimum wages for their own
contractors have found that such policies create better
quality jobs for communities and improve the contracting
process both by reducing the hidden public costs of the
52                     STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


procurement system, and by shifting purchasing towards
more reliable, high road contractors.” 4
    In short, the President has rationally determined that
raising the minimum wage for work on federal projects will
lead to improvements in productivity and the quality of work
and thereby benefit the government’s contracting operations.
“Such a strategy of seeking the greatest advantage to the
Government, both short- and long-term, is entirely
consistent with the congressional policies behind the
FPASA.” Kahn, 618 F.2d at 793.
                                   II.
     Today the majority rejects the consensus approach in
favor of a far more restrictive understanding of the scope of
the President’s authority under the Procurement Act. The
majority acknowledges that the Act authorizes the President
to “make rules for the Executive Branch’s implementation
of the Act’s many operative provisions.” See Maj. Op. at 14
(citing 40 U.S.C. § 121(a)). But the majority goes looking
for a provision, other than Section 121(a), that specifically
authorizes the President to adopt a “nationwide minimum
wage” and, finding none, concludes that the Order is
unlawful. 5 See id. at 21–25. The majority’s quixotic search

4
  Specifically, Illinois, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, the
District of Columbia, Hawai‘i, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts,
Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York,
North Carolina, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont,
Washington, and Wisconsin (“amici States”) submitted an amicus brief
in support of Defendants-Appellees.
5
 In the Procurement Act’s long history, only a recent decision by the
Sixth Circuit and a single-judge opinion from the Eleventh Circuit have
endorsed similar lines of reasoning. See Commonwealth v. Biden, 57
                      STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                         53


for a specific statutory provision, however, cannot be
squared with the plain terms of the Procurement Act.
    Congress explicitly recognized the Executive Branch’s
expansive authority to negotiate with federal contractors by
including restrictive clauses in federal contracts. See 41
U.S.C. §§ 3101(a), 3306(a), 3703(c); see also Perkins, 310
U.S. at 127. The Act has always been understood to give the
President broad authority and discretion to direct federal
agencies in the use of that power. See 40 U.S.C. § 121(a);
Mayes, 67 F.4th at 938, vacated as moot, 89 F.4th 1186. The
“expansive language” that Congress used to delegate
policymaking authority to the President regarding
procurement and contracting, and negotiating authority to
the agencies, is unmistakable evidence of legislative intent
to grant wide discretion to the Executive Branch. See San
Luis Obispo Coastkeeper v. Santa Maria Valley Water
Conservation Dist., 49 F.4th 1242, 1246 (9th Cir. 2022)
(observing that “expansive” statutory grant of authority is
clear evidence of congressional intent to grant discretion),
cert. denied sub nom. City of Santa Maria v. San Luis Obispo
Coastkeeper, 144 S. Ct. 74 (2023); see also State of Fla. v.
Dep’t of Health & Hum. Servs., 19 F.4th 1271, 1288 (11th

F.4th 545, 552 (6th Cir. 2023); Georgia, 46 F.4th at 1293 (Grant, J.).
The majority also suggests that a footnote in Chrysler Corp., 441 U.S. at
304 n.34, “endorsed” its restrictive reading of Section 121(a), see Maj.
Op. at 16, but that is not so. Most courts that have analyzed the
President’s authority under Section 121(a) have either ignored or
construed the Chrysler footnote for what it is—clearly dicta. See, e.g.,
Louisiana v. Biden, 55 F.4th 1017, 1026 n.24 (5th Cir. 2022); Mayes, 67
F.4th at 940–43, vacated as moot, 89 F.4th 1186; Biden, 57 F.4th at 551–
55; see also Georgia, 46 F.4th at 1310 (Anderson, J., concurring in part
and dissenting in part) (explaining that “Chrysler expressly disavows”
any requirement that “delegated authority must always be tied to a
specific statutory provision”).
54                 STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


Cir. 2021). And Congress’s broad delegation to the
President in this area makes particular sense in light of the
federal government’s “unrestricted power” to set the terms
of government contracts and the “traditional principle of
leaving purchases necessary to the operation of our
Government to administration by the executive branch of
Government.” Perkins, 310 U.S. at 127.
    Given the Procurement Act’s broad delegation of
authority to the Executive Branch, why would we require the
President to go further and find a provision specifically
referencing a $15 minimum wage for work on federal
projects?     As Judge Anderson recognized, “[n]either
common sense nor historical practices would suppose that
Congress must foresee and explicitly authorize every
qualification for government contractors and workers that
the infinitely various contractual circumstances may
require.” Georgia, 46 F.4th at 1311 (Anderson, J.,
concurring in part and dissenting in part).
    To be sure, there are certain “‘extraordinary cases’ that
provide a ‘reason to hesitate before concluding that
Congress’ meant to confer” on the executive agencies a
sweeping delegation of authority. See Maj. Op. at 25
(alterations adopted) (quoting West Virginia v. Env’t Prot.
Agency, 597 U.S. 697, 721 (2022)). In those cases
implicating the major questions doctrine, “the agency must
point to ‘clear congressional authorization’” for its proposed
regulation. See id. at 26 (alterations adopted) (quoting West
Virginia, 597 U.S. at 723). But critically, the majority
correctly holds that this is not one of those extraordinary
cases. See id. at 26–27. So the majority has no basis for its
clear statement rule requiring the President to identify a
statutory provision specifically referencing a $15 minimum
wage for work on federal projects.
                   STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                   55


    The majority also suggests that Executive Order 14026
does not have a sufficiently close nexus to the Procurement
Act’s goals of increasing efficiency and economy in federal
contracting. This is so, the majority argues, because
increasing the wage of federal contractors may lead to
increased costs that may get passed on to the federal
government. See id. at 19 (citing 86 Fed. Reg. at 67,206).
But the majority’s argument rests on the flawed assumption
that the President cannot issue policies under the
Procurement Act if the policy could lead to any potential
increase in government expenditures. That has never been
the law.
    As the Tenth Circuit recently explained, “presidents have
issued—and courts have upheld—a wide range of orders
under FPASA governing federal contractors and their
workers, often without a direct connection to cost
reduction.” See Bradford, 101 F.4th at 727 (citing Chao, 325
F.3d at 362, 366–67; Kahn, 618 F.2d at 796). That is because
“‘[e]conomy’ and ‘efficiency’ are not narrow terms.” Kahn,
618 F.2d at 789. “[T]hey encompass those factors like price,
quality, suitability, and availability of goods or services that
are involved in all acquisition decisions.” Id. Courts
reviewing the validity of executive orders under the
Procurement Act have never insisted on a precise
quantification of the expected benefits of a directive, and for
good reason. The President—not unelected judges—has the
democratic accountability, institutional competence, and
statutory authority to determine whether it is sound
economic policy to require minimum-wage floors for work
on government contracts.
   Relatedly, the majority argues that Executive Order
14026 violates the Act’s requirement that agencies shall
specify their needs “in a manner designed to achieve full and
56                 STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


open competition for the procurement.” See 41 U.S.C.
§ 3306(a)(1)(A). This is because, in the majority’s view,
“minimum wage rates invariably impair competition in the
market for federal contracting services” because they “strip[]
federal contract bidders of a key way to differentiate their
services—labor cost.” See Maj. Op. at 22. The majority’s
analysis suffers from two serious flaws.
     First, all restrictive contractual provisions limit the
universe of potential bidders who can provide the given
service. That is the feature of a restrictive clause, not a bug.
If the majority’s interpretation were correct, federal agencies
would be barred from inserting any restrictive clauses in
federal contracts on the basis that they might impair
competition from certain bidders. But this flies in the face
of the plain language of the Procurement Act, which gives
agencies broad authority to “specify [their] needs,” 41
U.S.C. § 3306(a)(1)(A), impose “restrictive provisions or
conditions,” id. § 3306(a)(2)(B), and define “minimum
acceptable standards” in solicitation bids, id.
§ 3306(a)(3)(B).       Again, as the Supreme Court has
explained, the Executive Branch enjoys “unrestricted
power” to “determine those with whom it will deal, and to
fix the terms and conditions upon which it will make needed
purchases.” Perkins, 310 U.S. at 127.
    Second, the majority improperly second-guesses the
Executive Branch’s determination about its own
procurement needs. As our sister circuits have recognized,
“procurement decisions invoke highly deferential rational
basis review” because “[c]ontracting officers are entitled to
exercise discretion upon a broad range of issues confronting
them in the procurement process.” Savantage Fin. Servs.,
Inc. v. United States, 595 F.3d 1282, 1286 (Fed. Cir. 2010)
(alterations adopted) (internal quotation marks and citation
                   STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                   57


omitted); see also Wit Assocs., Inc. v. United States, 62 Fed.
Cl. 657, 662 (2004) (“[T]he determination of an agency’s
minimum needs is a matter within the broad discretion of
agency officials, and not for this court to second guess.”
(internal citations omitted)). Under the guise of statutory
review, however, the majority pronounces that “[s]etting a
price control on labor disregards worker supply and demand,
geographic price differentials on costs for federal
contracting services, and local market realities.” Maj. Op. at
22.     We are ill-equipped to judicially second-guess
procurement decisions that are grounded in social,
economic, and political policy judgments. See Perkins, 310
U.S. at 127. Whether Executive Order 14026 represents
wise policy or will have the effects on the labor market that
the majority predicts is better left to economists and elected
officials.
                              III.
    Next, the majority suggests that Executive Order 14026
is unlawful because it is inconsistent with other federal
statutes governing wages for federal contractors. See Maj.
Op. at 22–25. As the majority notes, the Davis-Bacon Act
(“DBA”), Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act (“PCA”), and
McNamara-O’Hara Service Contract Act (“SCA”) all
require payment of the local “prevailing” minimum wage for
their respective sectors of the economy (laborers and
mechanics, contractors engaged in furnishing goods, and
contractors which mainly provide services). See 40 U.S.C.
§ 3142(b); 41 U.S.C. §§ 6502(1), 6703(1). The majority
claims that Executive Order 14026 would “effectively
nullify” these statutes. See Maj. Op. at 23.
    “When confronted with two Acts of Congress allegedly
touching on the same topic, this Court is not at liberty to pick
58                 STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


and choose among congressional enactments and must
instead strive to give effect to both.” Epic Sys. Corp. v.
Lewis, 584 U.S. 497, 510 (2018) (cleaned up) (citation
omitted). “A party seeking to suggest that two statutes
cannot be harmonized, and that one displaces the other, bears
the heavy burden of showing a clearly expressed
congressional intention that such a result should follow.”
See id. (cleaned up) (citation omitted). Because we can
easily read the Procurement Act and the DBA, PCA, and
SCA to work in harmony, it is our duty to do so. See San
Luis Obispo Coastkeeper, 49 F.4th at 1247.
    As the Department explained in the implementing rule,
the DBA, PCA, and SCA establish minimum wage rates, not
maximum wage rates, so it is not inconsistent for the
President to use the Procurement Act to establish a higher
minimum wage rate. 86 Fed. Reg. at 67,129. After all,
“Congress frequently sets minimum requirements while
expecting that other entities will adopt more stringent
regulations,” Bradford, 101 F.4th at 724 (citations omitted),
and the majority has no evidence—let alone “clearly
expressed congressional intention”—that Congress intended
to occupy the field of wage regulation for federal
contracting. Epic Sys. Corp., 584 U.S. at 510. Indeed, the
DBA itself says that it “does not supersede or impair any
authority otherwise granted by federal law to provide for the
establishment of specific wage rates.” 40 U.S.C. § 3146.
    So as the Tenth Circuit explained, the problem with the
majority’s argument is that “there is no indication here that
Congress intended for any of the minimum wage statutes to
preclude the payment of higher wages to employees working
on or in connection with covered contracts.” Bradford, 101
F.4th at 724. In the absence of any conflict, there is no basis
to read the minimum wage laws as creating an unwritten
                      STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                        59


exception to the broad rulemaking authority the Procurement
Act delegates to the President.
                                 IV.
    I agree with the majority’s conclusion that Executive
Order 14026 does not implicate the major questions
doctrine. See Maj. Op. at 26. The doctrine only applies
where “an agency claims to discover in a long-extant statute
an unheralded power to regulate a significant portion of the
American economy or make decisions of vast economic and
political significance.” Util. Air Regul. Grp. v. Env’t Prot.
Agency, 573 U.S. 302, 324 (2014) (cleaned up) (internal
quotation marks and citations omitted).
    The doctrine plainly does not apply here, as the majority
recognizes, because Executive Order 14026 does not
represent a “transformative” expansion of any authority. See
Maj. Op. at 26. Presidents for decades have invoked the
Procurement Act to issue orders directing federal agencies
to include various far-reaching clauses in federal contracts.
See id. at 26–27. That straightforward conclusion, at the
very first prong of the majority’s analysis, “is a sufficient
ground for deciding this case, and the cardinal principle of
judicial restraint—if it is not necessary to decide more, it is
necessary not to decide more—counsels us to go no further.”
PDK Lab’ys Inc. v. U.S. Drug Enf’t Admin., 362 F.3d 786,
799 (D.C. Cir. 2004) (Roberts, J., concurring in part and
concurring in judgment). 6


6
    The minimum wage increase order here would affect far fewer
individuals than the cases in which the Supreme Court has invoked the
major questions doctrine. See, e.g., Nat’l Fed’n of Indep. Bus. v. Dep’t
of Lab., Occupational Safety & Health Admin., 595 U.S. 109, 115 (2022)
60                     STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU


                                   V.
    Finally, the majority holds that the Department’s rule
implementing Executive Order 14026 is unlawful because
the Department “failed to consider alternatives” to requiring
contractors to pay a $15 minimum wage. Specifically, the
majority believes the Department should have considered
“modifying the amount of the minimum wage rate, changing
the effective date for the wage rate, or phasing in the wage
rate over a number of years.” See Maj. Op. at 32 (alterations
adopted) (quoting 86 Fed. Reg. at 67,130). The majority is
incorrect. Even if APA review is available when an agency
simply carries out policy determinations made by the
President, an agency does not act “arbitrarily and
capriciously” by implementing a binding presidential
directive.
    The President’s Executive Order 14026 clearly sets the
amount and timing of the minimum-wage requirement. It
expressly requires that, as of January 30, 2022, workers
performing on or in connection with covered contracts must
be paid $15 per hour unless exempt. See 86 Fed. Reg. at
22,835. It then directs the Secretary of Labor to “issue


(per curiam) (invoking the major questions doctrine where an emergency
rule concerning employee vaccinations would have affected 84 million
workers); Biden v. Nebraska, 143 S. Ct. 2355, 2372 (2023) (applying
doctrine to loan forgiveness program that would “release 43 million
borrowers from their obligations to repay $430 billion in student loans”);
West Virginia, 597 U.S. at 715 (applying doctrine to agency action that
“would reduce GDP by at least a trillion 2009 dollars by 2040” (citation
omitted)); King v. Burwell, 576 U.S. 473, 485 (2015) (concluding that
implementation of tax credits under the Affordable Care Act constitutes
a major question, since those tax credits “involv[e] billions of dollars in
spending each year and affect[] the price of health insurance for millions
of people”).
                   STATE OF NEBRASKA V. SU                 61


regulations by November 24, 2021, to implement the
requirements of this order,” which “shall include both
definitions of relevant terms and, as appropriate, exclusions
from the requirements of this order.” See id. at 22,836.
    The Department was evidently aware of its authority to
exclude certain types of contracts or contractors from the
minimum-wage requirement, given its decision to create “an
exclusion from coverage for” workers covered by the Fair
Labor Standards Act “who spend less than 20 percent of their
work hours in a workweek performing ‘in connection with’
covered contracts.” 86 Fed. Reg. at 67,217; see also id. at
67,227 (codified at 29 C.F.R. § 23.40 (2024)) (full set of
exclusions). But as the Department explained in its
implementing rule, the President’s order did not give it
authority to modify the amount or timing of the minimum-
wage requirement. See 86 Fed. Reg. at 67,130. The
Department did not act arbitrarily or capriciously by
declining to consider alternatives it could not modify
because those choices would have contravened the
President’s clear directive, and the President is the head and
embodiment of the Executive Branch.
   I respectfully dissent.
