USCA4 Appeal: 23-1925     Doc: 40          Filed: 12/01/2025   Pg: 1 of 11




                                             PUBLISHED

                              UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
                                  FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT


                                              No. 23-1861


        NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD,

                             Petitioner,

                     v.

        CONSTELLIS, LLC, d/b/a ACADEMI Training Center, LLC,

                            Respondent.


                                              No. 23-1925


        CONSTELLIS, LLC, d/b/a ACADEMI Training Center, LLC,

                             Petitioner,

                     v.

        NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD,

                            Respondent.


        On Application for Enforcement and Cross-Petition for Review of an Order of the National
        Labor Relations Board. (05-CA-278218)


        Argued: September 9, 2025                                  Decided: December 1, 2025


        Before AGEE, HEYTENS, and BERNER, Circuit Judges.
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1925     Doc: 40        Filed: 12/01/2025    Pg: 2 of 11




        Application for enforcement granted, and cross-petition for review denied, by published
        opinion. Judge Berner wrote the opinion, in which Judge Agee and Judge Heytens joined.


        ARGUED: Jared David Cantor, NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD,
        Washington, D.C., for Petitioner/Cross-Respondent. Michael MacHarg, Sr., KAUFMAN
        DOLOWICH LLP, Los Angeles, California, for Respondent/Cross-Petitioner. ON
        BRIEF: Joshua Counts Cumby, ADAMS AND REESE LLP, Nashville, Tennessee, for
        Petitioner/Cross-Respondent. Jennifer A. Abruzzo, General Counsel, Peter Sung Ohr,
        Deputy General Counsel, Ruth E. Burdick, Deputy Associate General Counsel, David
        Habenstreit, Assistant General Counsel, Milakshmi V. Rajapakse, Supervisory Attorney,
        Jared D. Cantor, Senior Attorney, NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD,
        Washington, D.C., for Respondent/Cross-Petitioner.




                                                  2
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1925      Doc: 40         Filed: 12/01/2025      Pg: 3 of 11




        BERNER, Circuit Judge:

               The National Labor Relations Act protects the right of working people to engage in

        “concerted activities” for the purpose of “mutual aid or protection.” 29 U.S.C. § 102.

        Speaking out against unsafe or unlawful working conditions is one such concerted activity.

        The National Labor Relations Act also protects workers against employer retaliation for

        exercising this right. Not all workers enjoy this protection, however. Many are excepted,

        either by the plain language of the statute or through judicial interpretation. This case

        concerns the scope of one such exception: that for managerial employees.

               Michael Macri worked as a firearms and tactics instructor for Constellis, Inc., a

        company that trains security officers in the proper handling of weapons. At the outset of

        the COVID-19 pandemic, Macri voiced concerns about Constellis’s lack of workplace

        precautions. Later that same year, Macri and several of his instructor colleagues raised

        significant safety concerns, including one involving firing ranges, to their supervisors. The

        instructors complained that bullets were ricocheting back during shooting exercises,

        putting instructors and students at grave risk. Indeed, several shooters had already been

        struck by bullet fragments. After Macri complained, Constellis suspended and later

        terminated him.

               Macri filed a charge with the National Labor Relations Board, alleging that

        Constellis had unlawfully terminated him in retaliation for exercising his right to engage

        in protected concerted activity. The Board agreed and ordered Constellis to reinstate Macri

        and pay him his lost wages. The National Labor Relations Board General Counsel filed

        this application for enforcement of its order, and Constellis cross-petitioned for review.

                                                     3
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1925      Doc: 40          Filed: 12/01/2025     Pg: 4 of 11




               This case turns on one question: was Macri a managerial employee and thereby

        excluded from the National Labor Relations Act’s protection against retaliation for

        engaging in protected concerted activity? Because the Board’s conclusion that Macri was

        not a managerial employee was supported by substantial evidence, we grant the Board’s

        application for enforcement and deny Constellis’s cross-petition for review.



                                               I. Background

                                          A. Factual Background

               Constellis is in the business of employing security officers and contracting them out

        to provide security at various federal government properties. It also trains security officers

        in the handling of weapons. This case concerns whether Constellis’s firearms and tactics

        instructors in its training programs are properly considered “employees” for purposes of

        the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA).

               Macri and the other instructors taught small groups of students how to handle a

        variety of weapons. Constellis mandated that instructors adhere to curricula set by

        management. It also provided “range cards,” which detailed the shooting drills that

        instructors were required to have the students follow. Instructors were not permitted to

        deviate from or alter the prescribed curricula or drills specified on the range cards without

        supervisory approval.

               Macri and his colleagues were, however, permitted some discretion in carrying out

        their jobs. They could, for example, remove a student from a live firing situation if they

        observed a safety violation. The instructors could also file “spot reports” about students

                                                      4
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1925         Doc: 40         Filed: 12/01/2025      Pg: 5 of 11




        who engaged in misconduct. On one occasion, Macri filed a spot report about a student

        who smelled of alcohol during class. Constellis policy prohibited instructors from

        otherwise disciplining or removing students from the training program. Such actions could

        be taken only at the direction of a supervisor. Indeed, Macri was once disciplined for

        requiring students to do burpees as punishment when they returned to class late following

        a break.

               Macri raised concerns about working conditions at Constellis with his supervisors

        more than once. During a staff meeting at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, Macri

        questioned Constellis’s prohibition on instructors and students wearing personal protective

        equipment at work. Shortly thereafter, a supervisor formally documented an unrelated

        workplace infraction allegedly committed by Macri months earlier.

               Several months later, Macri—together with other instructors—sent a letter to

        Constellis management voicing their objection to a problem at the firing ranges that caused

        bullets to ricochet back toward shooters. The letter stated that the ricochet problem posed

        “a serious but correctable life hazard to both students and instructors,” warned that it could

        lead to “injury or death,” and requested that Constellis fix this safety problem immediately.

        J.A. 730. 1 In response to the instructors’ letter, Constellis temporarily closed the most

        dangerous range and later claimed to have fixed the problem.

               The ricochet problem persisted. During a meeting with his supervisors, Macri

        confronted them about the company’s failure to correct the issue. He raised his voice and



               1
                   Citations to J.A. refer to the Joint Appendix filed by the parties.
                                                        5
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1925      Doc: 40         Filed: 12/01/2025     Pg: 6 of 11




        yelled at a supervisor. After this meeting, Constellis suspended Macri and later fired him,

        allegedly for insubordination.

                                           B. Procedural History

               Macri filed a charge with the NLRB Regional Director in Maryland alleging that he

        had been terminated unlawfully in retaliation for speaking out about unsafe working

        conditions at Constellis. After investigating Macri’s claim and finding it meritorious, the

        Regional Director filed a complaint against Constellis for violating NLRA Section 8(a)(1),

        which forbids employers from interfering with, restraining, or coercing employees for

        engaging in concerted activities for mutual aid or protection. 29 U.S.C. §§ 157, 158(a)(1).

               Constellis contested the allegations. Although it conceded that Macri had repeatedly

        complained about unsafe working conditions, Constellis maintained that Macri had been

        fired because of alleged insubordination, not in retaliation for his concerted activity.

        Constellis also argued that Macri was a “managerial employee” and thereby excepted from

        the NLRA’s protections.

               Following a hearing, an NLRB administrative law judge (ALJ) concluded that

        Macri was not a managerial employee and was, therefore, entitled to the full protection of

        the NLRA. The ALJ further found that Constellis suspended and terminated Macri, in large

        part, because he had raised concerns about Constellis’s approach to personal protective

        equipment at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic and the ongoing ricochet problem in the




                                                    6
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1925      Doc: 40         Filed: 12/01/2025      Pg: 7 of 11




        firing ranges. 2 Thus, the ALJ ruled that Constellis had committed unfair labor practices in

        violation of the NLRA.

               Constellis appealed the ALJ’s decision to the National Labor Relations Board (the

        Board), which affirmed and adopted the decision with only minor modifications. Before us

        is the NLRB General Counsel’s application for enforcement of the Board’s order and

        Constellis’s cross-petition for review, challenging the Board’s finding that Macri was not

        a managerial employee. 3



                                                II. Analysis

               This court treats the Board’s findings of fact as conclusive if they are “supported by

        substantial evidence on the record considered as a whole.” 29 U.S.C. § 160(f). The same

        substantial evidence standard applies to our review of the Board’s resolution of mixed

        questions of law and fact, including a determination of whether an employee is properly

        considered a managerial employee for purposes of the NLRA. NLRB v. HQM of Bayside,

        LLC, 518 F.3d 256, 260 (4th Cir. 2008). Substantial evidence “means—and means only—


               2
                To establish a violation of Section 8(a)(1), the NLRB General Counsel need only
        show that an employee’s protected activity “was a substantial or motivating factor for the
        employer’s action.” RGC (USA) Mineral Sands, Inc. v. NLRB, 281 F.3d 442, 448 (4th Cir.
        2002); see also Wright Line, 251 N.L.R.B. 1083 (1980). Retaliation need not be the only
        motive for the employer’s actions. See RGC (USA) Mineral Sands, Inc., 281 F.3d at 448.
               3
                  An order of the National Labor Relations Board does not have the force of law
        until it is enforced by a federal Circuit Court of Appeals. 29 U.S.C. § 160(e); Myers v.
        Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp., 303 U.S. 41, 48 (1938) (explaining that “[n]o power to
        enforce an order is conferred upon the Board” and “[t]o secure enforcement, the [NLRB
        General Counsel] must apply to a Circuit Court of Appeals for [an order’s] affirmance”).

                                                     7
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1925      Doc: 40        Filed: 12/01/2025     Pg: 8 of 11




        ‘such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a

        conclusion.’” Biestek v. Berryhill, 587 U.S. 97, 102–03 (2019) (quoting Consol. Edison

        Co. v. NLRB, 305 U.S. 197, 229 (1938)).

                                      A. The Managerial Exception

              The NLRA protects “any employee” unless the employee is specifically excepted.

        29 U.S.C. § 152(3). The Supreme Court created one such exception in NLRB v. Bell

        Aerospace Co. Division of Textron for “managerial employees” who “formulate and

        effectuate management policies by expressing and making operative the decisions of their

        employer.” 416 U.S. 267, 288 (1974) (quotation marks omitted). Noting that the NLRA

        did not explicitly detail this exception, the Supreme Court nonetheless reasoned that

        Congress regarded managerial employees as “so clearly outside the [NLRA] that no

        specific exclusionary provision was thought necessary.” Id. at 283.

              This is the first time our circuit has been called upon to construe the managerial

        exception. We agree with our sister circuits that the managerial exception must be

        construed narrowly given the NLRA’s otherwise broad definitional language. See Univ. S.

        Cal. v. NLRB, 918 F.3d 126, 140 (D.C. Cir. 2019) (acknowledging the need “to avoid

        interpreting the managerial exception so broadly that it chips away at the NLRA’s

        protections”); David Wolcott Kendall Mem. Sch. v. NLRB, 866 F.2d 157, 160 (6th Cir.

        1989) (“[T]he exception must be narrowly construed to avoid conflict with the broad

        language of the [NLRA] which covers ‘any employee,’ including professional

        employees.”); see also Holly Farms Corp. v. NLRB, 517 U.S. 392, 399 (1996) (noting

        “reviewing courts must take care to assure that exemptions from NLRA coverage are not

                                                    8
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1925          Doc: 40       Filed: 12/01/2025    Pg: 9 of 11




        so expansively interpreted as to deny protection to workers the [NLRA] was designed to

        reach”); Entergy Gulf States, Inc. v. NLRB, 253 F.3d 203, 208 (5th Cir. 2001) (explaining

        the supervisor exception to employee status under the NLRA “is not construed broadly” so

        as not to cause employees to “lose rights which the [NLRA] seeks to protect”). In assessing

        whether an employee is managerial, the proper focus is on the employee’s “actual job

        responsibilities, authority, and relationship to management.” Bell Aerospace, 416 U.S. at

        290 n.19.

               “[E]mployees whose decisionmaking is limited to the routine discharge of

        professional duties in projects to which they have been assigned” are not deemed

        managerial. NLRB v. Yeshiva Univ., 444 U.S. 672, 690 (1980). Such employees’

        responsibilities fall within “the scope of the duties routinely performed by [those] similarly

        situated[.]” Id. Even employees with substantial expertise, responsibility for planning, or

        authority to direct and evaluate other employees are not automatically considered

        managerial. Id. at 690 n.30.

               Put plainly, we must determine whether the employee’s responsibilities are so

        aligned with management that the employee “represents management interests by taking

        or recommending discretionary actions that effectively control or implement employer

        policy.” Id. at 683.

                                    B. Review of the Decision of the Board

               The Board’s conclusion that Macri was not a managerial employee is supported by

        substantial evidence. As a threshold matter, the Board articulated the correct legal standard

        as established by the Supreme Court. The Board then properly applied that standard to find

                                                      9
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1925       Doc: 40          Filed: 12/01/2025      Pg: 10 of 11




        that Macri’s position as an instructor lacks sufficient indicia of managerial status to fall

        under the exception: Constellis instructors are not permitted to formulate or effectuate

        management policies; they have no ability to alter the curriculum they teach; they play no

        role in selecting students for training; they are not allowed to independently discipline

        students; and they cannot make the ultimate decision regarding whether a student is

        permitted to remain in the training program. The authority to remove a student from class

        temporarily because of a safety violation does not evidence the level of discretion

        characteristic of managerial employees. Such authority is more akin to that of

        non-managerial classroom teachers who can remove students from class to control the

        safety conditions in their classrooms but cannot suspend or expel students without the

        involvement of higher-level decisionmakers. The authority to remove a student temporarily

        is particularly important in the context of weapons training, where students and instructors

        face substantial dangers that require immediate intervention.

               The actions taken by Macri in response to his concerns about workplace safety

        demonstrate the importance of the NLRA’s protection of those engaging in concerted

        activity. Macri and his coworkers lacked the ability or authority to fix the ricochet problem

        at the firing ranges. Instead, they had to bring their safety concerns to the attention of those

        at Constellis with the power to address the issues.

               We can quickly dispense with Constellis’s remaining arguments. The Board did not

        err by referring to and relying on its decision in Wolf Creek Nuclear Operating Corp., 349

        N.L.R.B. 686, 693 (2006). That decision provides a useful analysis of managerial status in



                                                      10
USCA4 Appeal: 23-1925      Doc: 40          Filed: 12/01/2025   Pg: 11 of 11




        a similar setting. Nor is there support for Constellis’s assertion that the ALJ engaged in

        results-oriented decision-making.




                                              III. Conclusion

               For these reasons, we grant the Board’s application for enforcement and deny

        Constellis’s cross-petition for review.



                                        GRANTING APPLICATION FOR ENFORCEMENT AND

                                                     DENYING CROSS-PETITION FOR REVIEW




                                                    11
