USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458     Doc: 51         Filed: 07/22/2025    Pg: 1 of 25




                                            UNPUBLISHED

                              UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
                                  FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT


                                              No. 24-1458


        RISE FOR ANIMALS; ANIMAL LEGAL DEFENSE FUND,

                            Plaintiffs - Appellants,

                     v.

        GARY WASHINGTON, Acting Secretary of the United States Department of
        Agriculture; SARAH HELMING, Deputy Administrator of Animal Care,

                            Defendants - Appellees.


        Appeal from the United States District Court for the District of Maryland, at Greenbelt.
        Julie R. Rubin, District Judge. (8:22-cv-00810-JRR)


        Argued: May 7, 2025                                             Decided: July 22, 2025


        Before THACKER, HARRIS, and QUATTLEBAUM, Circuit Judges.


        Affirmed by unpublished per curiam opinion.


        ARGUED: James Andrew Erselius, ANIMAL LEGAL DEFENSE FUND, Washington,
        D.C., for Appellants. Brian James Springer, UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF
        JUSTICE, Washington, D.C., for Appellees. ON BRIEF: Daniel H. Waltz, ANIMAL
        LEGAL DEFENSE FUND, Washington, D.C., for Appellants. Brian M. Boynton,
        Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Daniel Tenny, Civil Division, UNITED
        STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, Washington, D.C.; Erek L. Barron, United States
        Attorney, OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES ATTORNEY, Baltimore, Maryland, for
        Appellees.
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458      Doc: 51         Filed: 07/22/2025    Pg: 2 of 25




        Unpublished opinions are not binding precedent in this circuit.




                                                    2
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458        Doc: 51       Filed: 07/22/2025     Pg: 3 of 25




        PER CURIAM:

               Rise for Animals1 and Animal Legal Defense Fund2 (“Appellants”) sued the United

        States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) pursuant to the Administrative Procedure Act

        (“APA”) for an alleged violation of the Animal Welfare Act (“AWA”). Because we

        conclude that Appellants lack standing, we affirm the district court’s grant of the USDA’s

        motion to dismiss.

                                                     I.

               In order to carry out their missions, Appellants rely on inspection reports produced

        by the USDA to ensure animals being used for research purposes are treated humanely in

        compliance with the AWA. The AWA requires the USDA to conduct inspections;

        memorialize the findings of those inspections in inspection reports; and maintain a publicly

        available database of those inspection reports. In this litigation, Appellants claim an

        informational injury because the published inspection reports, to which they have access,

        do not detail every instance of AWA noncompliance.




               1
                 According to their website, Rise for Animals “is a national animal rights
        organization on a mission to end nonhuman animal experimentation in our
        lifetimes. . . [by] advocat[ing] for the abolition of nonhuman animal experimentation,
        including the liberation of nonhuman animals.” About Us, Rise for Animals, (July 3, 2025),
        https://perma.cc/5JWQ-WL8X.
               2
                 Animal Legal Defense Fund describes itself as an organization which seeks to
        “protect the lives and advance the interests of animals through the legal system.” Animal
        Legal Defense Fund, About Us, (July 3, 2025), https://perma.cc/CX97-25MY.

                                                     3
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458       Doc: 51          Filed: 07/22/2025       Pg: 4 of 25




                                                       A.

               In 1966, Congress passed the AWA “to ensure that animals intended for use in

        research facilities or for exhibition purposes . . . are provided humane care and treatment.”

        7 U.S.C. § 2131. Congress charged the Secretary of the USDA (“Secretary”), or the

        Secretary’s delegated representative, with enforcement of the AWA. Id. at § 2146. The

        Secretary has delegated this enforcement authority to the Animal Plant and Health

        Inspection Service (“APHIS”). 7 C.F.R. § 2.80(a)(6). In this capacity, APHIS “shall

        promulgate standards to govern the humane handling, care, treatment and transportation of

        animals by dealers, research facilities, and exhibitors.” 7 U.S.C. § 2143(a)(1). These

        standards “include minimum requirements for handling, housing, feeding, watering,

        sanitation, ventilation, shelter[,] . . . [and] adequate veterinary care . . . necessary for [the]

        humane handling, care, or treatment of animals.” Id. at § 2143(a)(2)(A).

                                                       1.

               To ensure these minimum requirements are being maintained, the AWA requires

        APHIS to “make such investigations or inspections as [it] deems necessary to determine

        whether any [covered entity] . . . has violated or is violating any provision of [the AWA]

        or any regulation.” 7 U.S.C. § 2146(a). The AWA imposes additional requirements for

        animals housed in “research facilities.” Id. at § 2136. A research facility is defined as any

        organization that “uses or intends to use live animals in research, tests, or experiments and

        that (1) purchases or transports live animals in commerce, or (2) receives funds” from the

        federal government for research purposes. Id. at § 2132(e). The AWA requires APHIS to

        inspect research facilities “at least once a year.” Id. at § 2146(a). If any deficiencies or

                                                        4
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458      Doc: 51         Filed: 07/22/2025      Pg: 5 of 25




        deviations from the AWA standards are identified, APHIS is required to “conduct such

        follow-up inspections as may be necessary until all deficiencies or deviations from such

        standards are corrected.” Id. We refer to this annual inspection requirement contained in

        § 2146(a) as the “Inspection Provision.”

               Despite the Inspection Provision, the AWA does not define “inspect” or

        “inspection.” But the USDA publishes an “Animal Welfare Inspection Guide” in order to

        “provide an aid for APHIS Animal Care Personnel when inspecting USDA licensed and

        registered facilities.” Rise for Animals v. Vilsack, 8:22-cv-00810-JRR, ECF No. 38 (D.

        Md. Oct. 16, 2023). The Animal Care unit of APHIS “has the responsibility of inspecting

        all facilities covered under the AWA and following up on complaints of abuse and

        noncompliance.” Id. Importantly, “the Inspection Guide is not a regulation and does not

        rise to the level of policy,” but is a “tool to improve the quality and uniformity of

        inspections, documentation, and enforcement of the Animal Care Program.” Id.

               The Inspection Guide details two different types of inspections conducted by

        APHIS: routine or focused. A routine inspection is a “normal periodic, unannounced

        inspection including [a] complete inspection of the facility.” Id. A focused inspection is

        far less intensive, involving an “unannounced inspection covering a localized area of a

        facility.” Id. These localized areas can include either re-inspection in connection with

        previously identified instances of noncompliance, a “partial inspection of the facility, such

        as animals or records only”, or “a partial inspection to follow up on a public complaint

        concerning animal welfare.” Id. “Thus, in general, a ‘focused’ inspection requires less



                                                     5
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458         Doc: 51          Filed: 07/22/2025      Pg: 6 of 25




        time and resources to conduct than a ‘routine’ inspection.” J.A. 104.3 Prior to February

        2019, APHIS maintained sole responsibility for fulfilling the Inspection Provision’s

        requirement and, up until that time, only a routine inspection was sufficient to satisfy the

        Inspection Provision.

                                                         2.

               In addition to the Inspection Provision, the AWA requires APHIS to memorialize

        the findings of the required inspections in publicly available inspection reports (“the

        Database Provision”). 7 U.S.C. § 2146a(b)(1). The Database Provision requires APHIS

        to “make publicly available via searchable database, in their entirety, without redactions

        all final [AWA] inspection reports, including all reports documenting all [AWA] violations

        and non-compliances observed by USDA officials.” Id. APHIS must make public “all

        reports or other materials documenting any violations and non-compliances observed by

        USDA officials for the current year and the preceding three years.” Id. at (b)(3).

                                                         B.

               In January 2018, the USDA and APHIS solicited public comment on a proposed

        inspection policy change. Specifically, notice and comment was solicited on the issue of

        whether “a reduction in the frequency of APHIS inspections [would] be a sufficient

        incentive for regulated facilities to use third-party programs to support compliance under

        the AWA.” J.A. 115. APHIS was seeking to determine if third party inspection and

        certification programs could meaningfully substitute for APHIS inspections, thereby


               3
                   Citations to the “J.A.” refer to the Joint Appendix filed by the parties in this appeal.

                                                         6
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458      Doc: 51            Filed: 07/22/2025   Pg: 7 of 25




        lightening the APHIS workload without increasing noncompliance with the AWA. APHIS

        highlighted the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care

        (“AAALAC”) as one of the third-party inspection and certification programs to which

        APHIS was considering deferring.

               The AAALAC is a private, nonprofit organization that promotes the humane

        treatment of animals in science through a voluntary accreditation program. The AAALAC

        provides accreditation to research facilities and consists of “entities invested in the use of

        animals in experimentation.” J.A. 149. To obtain AAALAC accreditation, a research

        facility must submit an application fee and a description of its animal testing and use

        practices. Then, AAALAC representatives conduct a site visit and prepare a report based

        on standards derived from an internal AAALAC guidebook recommending an

        accreditation status. Once accredited, an organization must pay AAALAC an annual fee

        in order to maintain accreditation.

               In response to the USDA and APHIS’ comment solicitation on the proposed

        inspection policy change, the “vast majority” of “stakeholders on all sides of the issue

        expressed strong interest in [APHIS] maintaining full responsibility for inspections and

        AWA compliance,” rather than outsourcing that responsibility to third parties. J.A. 191.

        Specifically, commentors advised APHIS not to rely on AAALAC accreditation because

        of the potential for conflicts of interest due to the AAALAC funding and membership

        structures. AAALAC’s membership body, and most of the funding for the organization,

        comes from entities engaged in the very animal research which AAALAC regulates. In

        response to these comments, APHIS released a public statement, on May 25, 2018,

                                                       7
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458       Doc: 51         Filed: 07/22/2025      Pg: 8 of 25




        “announcing that it [would] not establish new criteria for recognizing third-party inspection

        and certification programs when determining the [APHIS’] own inspection frequency

        under the Animal Welfare Act.” Id. at 189.

                                                      C.

               Despite this public announcement, in February 2019, APHIS proceeded to adopt an

        inspection policy which relied on AAALAC accreditation to determine the frequency, and

        depth of inspections (“Focused Inspection Policy”). The rationale provided for the Focused

        Inspection Policy was “to make efficient use of [APHIS’] finite resources.” Appellee’s

        Opening Br. at 4. Pursuant to the Focused Inspection Policy, APHIS instructed its

        inspectors that only focused inspections should be performed at AAALAC accredited

        facilities. To communicate this change in policy to APHIS Animal Care staff, APHIS

        disseminated Focused Inspection Frequently Asked Questions (“FAQ”).                 The FAQ

        explained that AAALAC accreditation constituted a dispositive factor in determining

        whether an inspection should be focused or routine. J.A. 195 (“If a facility is not AAALAC

        accredited, is it eligible for a focused inspection? No.”). In contrast, per the Focused

        Inspection Policy, inspectors at AAALAC accredited facilities were ordered to inspect

        either animals, facilities, or paperwork on an annual rotating basis rather than inspecting

        all three annually. See id. at 200 (“You must rotate your focus for each visit (i.e., the focus

        could be on records one year and animals or facilities the next.)”).

               After February 2019, per this Focused Inspection Policy, APHIS instructed its

        inspectors that they must convert a focused inspection into a routine inspection if certain

        levels of noncompliance are found during a focused inspection, even if the facility in

                                                      8
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458      Doc: 51         Filed: 07/22/2025      Pg: 9 of 25




        question meets other criteria relevant under the policy, including AAALAC accreditation.

        And for the first time, the USDA allowed the focused inspections to count as the statutorily

        required annual inspection of research facilities. Per an email disseminating the FAQ,

        APHIS referred to this new inspection practice as “Focused Annual Research Inspections

        for AAALAC Accredited Facilities” and told inspectors that the adoption of this new policy

        was not to be announced publicly. See id. at 203 (“We are using a low-key approach. There

        will be no stakeholder announcement.”); see also id. (“[T]he [FAQ] document is for official

        use, internal only.”); id. (“This FAQ will not be in the Inspection Guide.”).

                                                     D.

               On April 5, 2022, Appellants filed suit against the USDA and APHIS alleging that

        the Focused Inspection Policy violated the AWA. In this suit, Appellants highlighted what

        they viewed as the secretive manner in which APHIS adopted the Focused Inspection

        Policy despite publicly announcing that third party accreditation would not impact

        inspection frequency. See J.A. 20 (“[D]espite . . . the agency’s own pronouncement that it

        had decided not to implement any such policy, the USDA had nevertheless implemented a

        new Inspection Policy under which the agency no longer conducted full inspections of all

        facets of research labs that are accredited by AAALAC.” emphasis in original)).

        Appellants explained that they only became aware of the existence of the Focused

        Inspection Policy as a result of a previous lawsuit Appellants filed against the USDA.

        Specifically, in October 2020, Appellants filed suit against the USDA for the failure to

        timely comply with a Freedom of Information Act (“FOIA”) request. In response to the



                                                     9
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458       Doc: 51         Filed: 07/22/2025      Pg: 10 of 25




        FOIA lawsuit, the USDA produced responsive records which revealed APHIS’ adoption

        of the Focused Inspection Policy.

               In the current lawsuit against the USDA and APHIS, Appellants assert that APHIS

        “evade[d] its statutory obligation to conduct full annual inspections of research facilities as

        required under the [AWA] . . . without providing a reasoned basis for doing so in violation

        of the [APA].” J.A. 7 ¶ 1. Accordingly, Appellants allege that the “[Focused] Inspection

        Policy is ‘not in accordance with law’ within the meaning of the APA.” J.A. 24 ¶ 69.

        Appellants also allege that the adoption of the Focused Inspection Policy was arbitrary and

        capricious within the meaning of the APA “in light of all of the limitations that attend

        AAALAC accreditation and the fact that AAALAC-accredited facilities have a higher rate

        of AWA violations than non-AAALAC facilities.” J.A. 24 ¶ 70 (emphasis in original). As

        a result, Appellants request that the Focused Inspection Policy be declared unlawful and

        set aside.

               The USDA and APHIS moved to dismiss the complaint pursuant to Federal Rule of

        Civil Procedure 12(b)(1), arguing that Appellants lack standing to challenge the adoption

        of the Focused Inspection Policy. In the alternative, the USDA and APHIS assert that:

        Appellants’ claims are barred by the statute of limitations pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 2401(a);

        Appellants failed to challenge final agency action; the challenged agency conduct is

        committed to agency discretion by law; and the complaint fails to state a claim on which

        relief can be granted.

               In response to the motion to dismiss, Appellants assert that they possess Article III

        standing pursuant to an informational standing theory. Appellants claim that the AWA’s

                                                      10
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458      Doc: 51         Filed: 07/22/2025     Pg: 11 of 25




        Database Provision entitles them to inspection reports detailing every instance of AWA

        noncompliance. Because the Focused Inspection Policy prevented routine inspections at

        AAALAC facilities, Appellants argue APHIS investigators necessarily missed instances of

        AWA noncompliance. Therefore, the Focused Inspection Policy prevented Appellants

        from receiving the fulsome inspection reports to which they claim entitlement.

               On March 21, 2024, the district court granted the motion to dismiss based on

        Appellant’s lack of subject matter jurisdiction concluding that Appellants lacked Article

        III standing because Appellants’ reading of the AWA was implausible. See J.A. 637

        (“[Appellants] argue that they would receive additional information under the statute if the

        [Focused] Inspection Policy were not in place, and that the court must accept their view.

        The court disagrees that it is so bound.”). The court also dismissed the complaint on the

        alternative ground that the adoption of the Focused Inspection Policy did not constitute

        final agency action.

               Appellants timely appealed.

                                                    II.

               We review a district court’s dismissal for lack of jurisdiction due to the lack of

        Article III standing de novo. City of New York v. U.S. Dep’t of Def., 913 F.3d 423, 429–

        430 (4th Cir. 2019).




                                                    11
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458       Doc: 51          Filed: 07/22/2025      Pg: 12 of 25




                                                      III.

                                                      A.

               To establish standing, a plaintiff must demonstrate: (1) an injury in fact; (2) a

        sufficient causal connection between the injury and the conduct complained of; and (3) a

        likelihood that the injury will be redressed by a favorable decision. Wikimedia Found. v.

        NSA, 857 F.3d 193, 207 (4th Cir. 2017). A plaintiff can establish all three of these elements

        based on an informational injury. See Laufer v. Naranda Hotels, LLC, 60 F.4th 156, 166

        (4th Cir. 2023) (“[A]n informational injury is sufficiently concrete, particularized, and

        actual to qualify for Article III standing to sue.”). An informational injury arises when a

        plaintiff is deprived of information which is statutorily required to be disclosed to them.

        In this context, “a plaintiff suffers [a] sufficiently concrete and particularized informational

        injury where the plaintiff alleges that: (1) it has been deprived of information that, on its

        interpretation, a statute requires the government or a third party to disclose[,] and (2) it

        suffers, by being denied access to that information, the type of harm Congress sought to

        prevent by requiring disclosure.” Friends of Animals v. Jewell, 828 F.3d 989, 992 (D.C.

        Cir. 2016); see also Dreher v. Experian Info. Solutions Inc., 856 F.3d 337, 345 (4th Cir.

        2017) (“[A] constitutionally cognizable informational injury requires that a person lack

        access to information to which he is legally entitled and that the denial of that information

        creates a ‘real’ harm with an adverse effect.” emphasis in original)).

               It is well established that “when assessing a question of standing to sue, we are not

        concerned with the merits of the plaintiff’s claim.” Nanni v. Aberdeen Marketplace, Inc.,

        878 F.3d 447, 454 (4th Cir. 2017) (citing White Tail Park, Inc. v. Stroube, 413 F.3d 451,

                                                      12
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458       Doc: 51          Filed: 07/22/2025      Pg: 13 of 25




        460 (4th Cir. 2005)). However, the plaintiffs proffered reading of the statute, which they

        claim entitles them to information, must be, at minimum, plausible. See Humane Soc’y of

        the U.S. v. Vilsack, 797 F.3d 4, 8 (D.C. Cir. 2015) (evaluating whether the plaintiff has

        “made out a plausible claim to Article III standing”); see also Warth v. Seldin, 422 U.S.

        490, 500 (1975) (“[T]he standing question in such cases is whether the constitutional or

        statutory provision on which the claim rests properly can be understood as granting persons

        in the plaintiff’s position a right to judicial relief.” (internal citation omitted)); Laws.

        Comm. for 9/11 Inquiry, Inc. v. Wray, 848 F.App’x 428, 430 (D.C. Cir. 2021) (“The

        plaintiff’s reading of a statute for informational standing purposes must at least be

        plausible.”). Therefore, to establish standing in an informational injury context, a plaintiff

        must demonstrate a plausible interpretation of a statute that entitles them to the specific

        information they seek. See Friends of Animals, 828 F.3d at 992 (informational injury not

        sufficiently alleged where statutory provision could not be read to require disclosure

        plaintiffs sought); see also Zivotofsky ex rel. Ari Z. v. Sec’y of State, 444 F.3d 614, 619

        (D.C. Cir. 2006) (informational injury sufficiently alleged where plaintiff offered “at the

        least a colorable reading of the statute” which entitled them to sought after information).

        Further, it is not enough for a plaintiff to establish that a statute contains a broad disclosure

        provision or requires the disclosure of some information generally. Instead, a plaintiff must

        demonstrate “a legal right to the information in question,” meaning a plausible statutory

        entitlement to the specific information they seek. Salt Inst. v. Leavitt, 440 F.3d 156, 159

        (4th Cir. 2006).



                                                       13
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458       Doc: 51         Filed: 07/22/2025      Pg: 14 of 25




                                                      B.

                The crux of the current dispute, then, is whether Appellants have plausibly

        demonstrated that the AWA entitles them to inspection reports detailing every instance of

        AWA noncompliance. Because the Database Provision of the AWA does not plausibly

        dictate the substance of the publicly required inspection reports, Appellants have failed to

        demonstrate a legal right to the specific information they seek.

                Appellants argue that the AWA entitles them to inspection reports detailing every

        single instance of AWA noncompliance.           To assert a statutory entitlement to these

        comprehensive inspection reports, Appellants rely on two separate provisions of the AWA,

        read in tandem. First, Appellants rely on the Database Provision of 7 U.S.C. § 2146a(b)(1),

        which reads:

                       The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service shall, notwithstanding any
                       other provision of law:

                       (b) hereafter, make publicly available via searchable database, in their
                       entirety without redactions except signatures, the following records:

                       (1) all final Animal Welfare Act inspection reports, including all
                       reports documenting all Animal Welfare Act violations and non-
                       compliances observed by USDA officials and all animal inventories
                       for the current year and the preceding three years (emphasis
                       supplied);

        Second, Appellants rely on the Inspection Provision § 2146(a), which reads in relevant

        part:

                       The Secretary shall make such investigations or inspections as he
                       deems necessary to determine whether any [covered entity] has
                       violated or is violating any provision of this chapter or any regulation

                                                      14
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458      Doc: 51          Filed: 07/22/2025     Pg: 15 of 25




                      or standard issued thereunder, and for such purposes, the Secretary
                      shall, at all reasonable times, have access to the places of business and
                      the facilities, animals, and those records required to be kept pursuant
                      to section 2140 of this title of any such dealer, exhibitor, intermediate
                      handler, carrier, research facility, or operator of an auction sale.

                      The Secretary shall inspect each research facility at least once each
                      year and, in the case of deficiencies or deviations from the standards
                      promulgated under this chapter, shall conduct such follow-up
                      inspections as may be necessary until all deficiencies or deviations
                      from such standards are corrected.

               Appellants’ conception of these statutes is that the Inspection Provision requires

        APHIS to conduct annual investigations in order to uncover every instance of AWA

        noncompliance. See Appellants’ Opening Br. at 19 (“The AWA envisions those annual

        inspections would capture all AWA noncompliances.”). Therefore, Appellants argue that

        any inspection policy which fails to identify all AWA noncompliance violates the

        Inspection Provision.    Next, Appellants read the Database Provision’s language that

        inspection reports must document “all [AWA] violations observed by USDA officials” to

        require inspection reports that document every AWA violation observed by investigators.

        7 U.S.C. § 2146a(b)(1). And then Appellants claim that because APHIS investigators must

        observe all AWA violations, their resulting inspection reports must likewise document all

        AWA violations, which must then be disclosed. Therefore, according to Appellants, any

        inspection policy that results in the failure to document every single instance of AWA

        noncompliance violates not only the Inspection Provision but also the Database Provision.

               Here, because the Focused Inspection Policy prevents APHIS from conducting

        routine inspections annually, Appellants argue that investigators must be missing instances

        of AWA noncompliance. “Thus, [Appellants] allege the [Focused] Inspection Policy—

                                                     15
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458      Doc: 51         Filed: 07/22/2025      Pg: 16 of 25




        and its allowance of the USDA to avoid documentation of all AWA noncompliances and

        animals at the facility, . . . deprives [Appellants] of information required to be made

        public.” Appellants’ Opening Br. at 19.

               The USDA responds that Appellants’ view of the AWA is implausible. The USDA

        argues that no conception of either the Inspection Provision or the Database Provision

        could plausibly require every single instance of AWA noncompliance to be observed and

        documented. Pursuant to the USDA’s view of the Database Provision, Appellants are not

        statutorily entitled to inspection reports detailing all violations of the AWA. Instead, the

        USDA argues, the Database Provision imposes only a requirement that APHIS maintain a

        publicly available database of inspection reports but says nothing about the content of those

        reports.

               The USDA argues that Appellants seek to enforce the substantive requirements of

        the Inspection Provision by bootstrapping them to their expansive reading of the

        information entitlement of the Database Provision. But, the USDA argues, even if the

        Inspection Provision does require inspectors to observe every AWA noncompliance, that

        provision cannot be read to impose a substantive requirement as to the content of the

        inspection reports in the separate Database Provision.

                                                     C.

               Appellants’ interpretation of the AWA as requiring publicly available inspection

        reports which detail every single instance of AWA noncompliance is implausible. To

        determine if Appellants have alleged a plausible statutory entitlement to the specific

        information they seek, we look to the Database Provision to see what exactly it requires to

                                                     16
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458      Doc: 51         Filed: 07/22/2025      Pg: 17 of 25




        be disclosed. See Dreher v. Experian Info. Solutions Inc., 856 F.3d 337, 345 (4th Cir.

        2017) (evaluating which “sources of information” the Fair Credit Reporting Act required

        to be disclosed to determine the presence of informational injury). Here, the Database

        Provision requires APHIS to make public “all final AWA inspection reports” and “all

        animal inventories for the current year and the preceding three years.”            7 U.S.C.

        § 2146a(b)(1). These reports must be “publicly available via searchable database” and be

        published “in their entirety” and “without redactions.” Id. at (b). The statute also requires

        “all reports or other materials documenting any violations and non-compliances observed

        by USDA officials” and “all final [AWA] research facility annual reports” to be made

        public. Id. at (b)(3)–(4). Importantly, the Database Provision says nothing about the

        content of the publicly available inspection reports.

               Appellants do not allege that the USDA and APHIS are failing to compose or

        publish final inspection reports publicly. Instead, Appellants merely wish for different,

        more thorough, inspection reports to be prepared and published. However, nothing in the

        Database Provision, which is the only provision which entitles Appellants to any

        information, imposes that requirement.

               In an attempt to avoid this reality, Appellants rely on the requirements imposed by

        the Inspection Provision.

                                                     D.

               The District of Columbia Circuit considered, and rejected, this same theory in Am.

        Soc’y for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals v. Feld Entertainment Inc., 659 F.3d 13 (D.C.



                                                     17
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458      Doc: 51          Filed: 07/22/2025     Pg: 18 of 25




        Cir. 2011).4 There, the Animal Protection Institute (“API”) sued Feld Entertainment Inc.

        (“Feld”), which owned the largest collection of endangered Asian elephants, alleging that

        Feld’s practice of using bull hooks and tethering to control its elephants violated Section 9

        of the Endangered Species Act (“ESA”).5 Section 9 makes it unlawful to “take” any

        endangered species within the United States. The ESA defines to “take” as “to harass,

        harm, pursue, hunt, shoot, wound, kill, trap, capture, or collect, or an attempt to engage in

        any such conduct.” 16 U.S.C. § 1532(19). However, pursuant to ESA section 10, the

        Secretary of Agriculture may issue a permit for a take otherwise prohibited provided he

        first gives public notice and an opportunity to comment on the permit application. 16

        U.S.C. § 1538(a)(1)(B), (D).

               Feld argued that API lacked standing to challenge whether its treatment of elephants

        constituted a “take” pursuant to section 9.       In response, API asserted informational

        standing, not under section 9, but pursuant to the public disclosure provision, section 10(c),

        of the ESA. Section 10(c) requires public disclosure of information contained in permit




               4
                 See also Bensman v. U.S. Forest Serv., 408 F.3d 945, 957 (7th Cir. 2005) (rejecting
        the appellants theory that the Appeals Reform Act’s procedural rights imbued them with
        an informational right when violated because it was “too attenuated.”); Wilderness Soc.,
        Inc. v. Rey, 622 F.3d 1251, 1259 (9th Cir. 2010) (“The Appeals Reform Act grants the
        public a right to process and participation. Even though these rights necessarily, involve
        the dissemination of information, they are not thereby tantamount to a right to information
        per se.” (cleaned up) (emphasis in original)).
               5
                 A bullhook is a “two- to three-foot rod with a metal point and hook mounted on
        one end” used to guide and control the elephants. Feld Ent., 659 F.3d at 17. Tethering
        refers to the practice of “tethering the Asian elephants with chains when they are not
        performing and when they are traveling by train.” Id. (cleaned up).

                                                     18
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458      Doc: 51         Filed: 07/22/2025     Pg: 19 of 25




        applications for a permissible “take.” Specifically, a party who applies for a permit must

        provide specified information to the Fish and Wildlife Service which must make that

        information available to the public. Recognizing that section 9 did not impose any public

        disclosure requirements, API sought to tie its challenge to Feld’s treatment of elephants to

        the only ESA provision which entitled them to information -- the public disclosure

        requirement of section 10(c).

               In Feld, API argued that sections 9 and 10(c) were so interrelated that section 9

        controlled the public disclosure provision of section 10(c), despite not explicitly

        authorizing the disclosure of information. According to API, because Feld’s treatment of

        elephants constituted a “take” prohibited by section 9, the company could not lawfully

        engage in bullhooking and tethering the elephants without first applying for, and obtaining,

        a permit pursuant to section 10. This permit application would then be subject to public

        disclosure. Therefore, because Feld had not filed a permit application, which API theorized

        they were required to do, API argued it was being denied information to which it was

        entitled pursuant to its understanding of the ESA.

               The Feld court rejected API’s informational standing theory, explaining that API’s

        principal disagreement stemmed from a dispute about section 9 in the first instance -

        - whether Feld’s treatment of the elephants constituted a “take” -- rather than about a lack

        of information which Feld was required to disclose. The court explained that API would

        only have standing to bring an informational injury suit pursuant to section 10 if “Feld

        refused to disclose information in its permit application that API believed the statute

        required [to be disclosed], or if the Fish and Wildlife Service refused to make public the

                                                    19
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458       Doc: 51         Filed: 07/22/2025      Pg: 20 of 25




        information it received.” Id. The Feld court further noted that API’s requested remedy

        was a ceasing of the alleged abusive practices, rather than the dissemination of the sought

        after information. Therefore, because nothing in section 9 entitled API to any information,

        the court held that the plaintiffs failed to establish informational standing.

               Similarly, in Friends of Animals v. Jewell, the District of Columbia Circuit again

        rejected an effort to bootstrap a substantive disagreement with agency policy to a purported

        informational harm. 828 F.3d 989 (D.C. Cir. 2016). In that case, Friends of Animals, an

        animal rights organization, sued the USDA pursuant to the ESA alleging that the Secretary

        had violated section 4 of the ESA. Section 4 of the ESA empowers the Secretary of the

        Interior (“Interior Secretary”) to designate certain species as endangered. The ESA also

        contains a provision allowing “any interested person to petition the Secretary to add a

        species or remove it from the endangered or threatened species list.” Id. at 990. Any

        petition to list or de-list a species then triggers two mandatory deadlines. The first deadline

        requires the Interior Secretary to make a finding as to the petition’s validity within 90 days

        of initial receipt of the petition. Second, if the Interior Secretary finds the petition valid,

        then within 12 months of initial receipt of the petition, the Interior Secretary must make

        one of three findings: that the listing action requested is (1) not warranted; (2) warranted;

        or (3) warranted but temporarily precluded by pending proposals to list other species. The

        Interior Secretary is then required to post the 12 month finding in the Federal Register.

        Importantly, the ESA also permits “any person to bring suit against the [Interior] Secretary

        alleging that he has failed to perform a non-discretionary act or duty required by section

        4.” Id. at 991.

                                                      20
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458       Doc: 51          Filed: 07/22/2025      Pg: 21 of 25




               On September 27, 2013, Friends of Animals filed two listing petitions requesting

        that the Interior Secretary list the spider tortoise and the flat-tailed tortoise as either

        threatened or endangered.       This filing triggered the 90 day validity determination.

        However, the Interior Secretary did not make the validity finding within the required 90

        day period. Twelve months after the filing of the initial listing petition, in September 2014,

        the Interior Secretary had still not made a finding as to the listing action. Therefore, Friends

        of Animals filed an intent to sue letter. In December 2014, the Secretary sent Friends of

        Animals a letter stating that it did not plan to issue the required 12 month finding for both

        listing petitions until fiscal year 2017. Friends of Animals then filed a complaint in district

        court, alleging that the Secretary had violated Section 4 of the ESA by not timely issuing

        findings within 12 months in response to the listing petitions.

               To demonstrate harm, Friends of Animals asserted that it had suffered an

        informational injury and therefore possessed Article III standing. To support this theory,

        Friends of Animals asserted that the Interior Secretary’s failure to comply with the 12

        month deadline deprived them of the information they otherwise would have obtained from

        the ESA’s disclosure provision. Significantly, however, that disclosure provision required

        the disclosure of information in the Federal Register only after the Secretary had released

        the 12 month finding.

               The District of Columbia Circuit Court explained that the 12 month listing provision

        deadline of section 4 did not entitle Friends of Animals to the requested information. The

        court explained, “Friends of Animals’s contention that it has standing fails at the first part

        of the inquiry, the sine qua non of informational injury: It is seeking to enforce a statutory

                                                      21
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458       Doc: 51         Filed: 07/22/2025         Pg: 22 of 25




        deadline provision that by its terms does not require the public disclosure of information.”

        Friends of Animals, 828 F.3d at 992. Therefore, because the Friends of Animals complaint

        sought to have the court order compliance with the deadline requirement and not the

        disclosure requirement of the ESA, the court held that an informational injury had not been

        alleged. This was true despite the alleged interconnectedness of the provisions and the

        downstream consequences of disclosure that would result from compliance with the

        deadline provision. Therefore, “because Friends of Animals [sought] to enforce a deadline

        requirement that does not obligate the Secretary to disclose information” they did not

        sufficiently establish Article III standing. Id. at 994–95.

                                                      E.

               Here, we likewise reject Appellants’ attempt to recast a dispute in connection with

        the Focused Inspection Policy as an informational harm. Appellants are receiving the

        inspection reports to which the AWA’s Database Provision entitles them. They are not

        entitled to more.

               Appellants contend that, absent the Focused Inspection Policy, APHIS “would

        necessarily be collecting more information that would have to be reported to the public

        about whether research facilities are complying with all AWA standards—precisely the

        kind of injury the Supreme Court upheld in Federal Election Commission v. Akins, 524

        U.S. 11 (1998).” Appellants’ Opening Br. at 21. In Akins, a group of voters sued the

        Federal Election Commission (“FEC”) over its determination that the American Israel

        Public Affairs Committee (“AIPAC”) was not a “political committee” as defined by the

        Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (“FECA”). 524 U.S. at 16. The FECA “imposes

                                                     22
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458      Doc: 51          Filed: 07/22/2025     Pg: 23 of 25




        extensive recordkeeping and disclosure requirements upon groups that fall within the

        [FECA’s] designation of a political committee.” Id. at 14 (internal quotation marks

        omitted). Because AIPAC was not designated a political committee, it was not required to

        make these disclosures. The FECA provided that “any person who believes a violation of

        this Act has occurred, may file a complaint with the [FEC].” Id. at 19. The FECA further

        provided that “any party aggrieved by an order of the [FEC] dismissing a complaint filed

        by such party may file a petition in district court seeking review of that dismissal.” Id. In

        Akins, the respondents, a group of voters, filed an administrative complaint based on the

        failure of the FEC to designate AIPAC as a political committee and sought review of that

        complaint’s dismissal in district court.

               The respondents alleged that pursuant to the FECA, AIPAC was a political

        committee and should be designated as such. The respondents alleged that this incorrect

        designation caused an informational injury because they could not obtain the disclosure

        information from AIPAC that would otherwise result from a political committee

        designation. The FEC argued that respondents lacked standing to challenge the FEC’s

        political committee designation because the respondents alleged only a generalized

        grievance in the designation. The Supreme Court disagreed, holding that the FECA’s

        designation challenge provisions explicitly sought to address “the failure to obtain relevant

        information” from a designation decision. Akins, 524 U.S. at 20. The Court explained,

        “the ‘injury in fact’ that respondents have suffered consists of their inability to obtain

        information . . . that on respondents’ view of the law, the statute requires that AIPAC make



                                                     23
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458      Doc: 51          Filed: 07/22/2025     Pg: 24 of 25




        public.” Id. at 21. Therefore, the respondents’ injury was sufficiently concrete and

        particular to meet the requirements of Article III standing.

               Appellants attempt to analogize Akins to the case at hand arguing that Akins

        demonstrates a viable injury exists in the “conveyance of less accurate or fulsome

        information.” Appellants’ Opening Br. at 21. But, “in relying on Akins, Appellants

        confuse two distinct standing inquiries: the concreteness of the alleged injury and the status

        of the claimed right.” Salt Inst. v. Leavitt, 440 F.3d 156, 159 (4th Cir. 2006). The question

        in Akins was whether the respondents’ challenge to AIPAC’s political designation was too

        generalized to confer informational standing. The Akins court concluded that it was not,

        holding that an informational injury could be “sufficiently concrete and specific” to confer

        standing. Akins did not address whether the FECA granted a right to the information at

        issue. And that makes all the difference because that is the question we face here.

               Significantly, this case deals with “the antecedent question [of] whether Congress

        has granted a legal right to the information in question.” Salt Inst., 440 F.3d at 159. And

        Akins is of no moment in determining whether Appellants have plausibly alleged a statutory

        entitlement to the information they seek. Here, Appellants must demonstrate that the AWA

        Database Provision plausibly entitles them to inspection reports detailing every instance of

        AWA noncompliance. Appellants have not done so. Appellants have not plausibly alleged

        that the Database Provision requires the inspection reports to contain any specific content,

        let alone that it requires a detailing of every instance of AWA noncompliance. Therefore,

        Appellants have not plausibly demonstrated a denial of any information to which they are

        statutorily entitled. Thus, the Database Provision does not provide Appellants with a

                                                     24
USCA4 Appeal: 24-1458      Doc: 51         Filed: 07/22/2025      Pg: 25 of 25




        vehicle to challenge APHIS’ substantive inspection practice, and they have not

        demonstrated an informational injury sufficient to confer standing.

                                                    IV.

               For the foregoing reasons, the district court’s dismissal for lack of subject matter

        jurisdiction is

                                                                                       AFFIRMED.




                                                     25
