                                NOT FOR PUBLICATION                      FILED
                        UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS                    JAN 17 2025
                                                                      MOLLY C. DWYER, CLERK
                                                                       U.S. COURT OF APPEALS
                                FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

SAN LUIS OBISPO MOTHERS FOR                        No. 23-3884
PEACE; FRIENDS OF THE EARTH,                       Agency No. 50-275
                                                   Nuclear Regulatory Commission
               Petitioners,
                                                   MEMORANDUM*
  v.

UNITED STATES NUCLEAR
REGULATORY COMMISSION; UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA,

               Respondents,

----------------------------------------

PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY,

               Intervenor.

                         On Petition for Review of an Order of the
                             Nuclear Regulatory Commission

                        Argued and Submitted November 4, 2024
                                   Phoenix, Arizona

Before: PAEZ, BERZON, and OWENS, Circuit Judges.




       *
             This disposition is not appropriate for publication and is not precedent
except as provided by Ninth Circuit Rule 36-3.
      Diablo Canyon is a nuclear power plant in San Luis Obispo, California,

owned and operated by Pacific Gas & Electric Company (PG&E). Petitioners San

Luis Obispo Mothers for Peace (SLOMFP) and Friends of the Earth (FOE)

challenge a final order issued by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC),

which denied Petitioners an administrative hearing regarding a 2023 change to a

safety-related surveillance program at one of Diablo Canyon’s nuclear reactors

(Unit 1). The change in question is the postponed withdrawal and testing of

Capsule B, one of several surveillance capsules used to monitor the structural

integrity of the reactor vessel surrounding Unit 1’s reactor core. We deny the

petition for review.

      1. We have jurisdiction only over the agency’s most recent order denying

Petitioners an administrative hearing on the latest postponement to Capsule B’s

withdrawal (the 2023 “Denial Order”), not the decisions in which the agency

permitted repeated delays in the capsule’s removal (the 2023, 2012, 2010, and

2008 “Extension Approvals”).

      For an appellate court to review agency action under the Hobbs Act, the

agency must “promptly give notice” of the “entry” of a “reviewable” and “final”

order “by service or publication in accordance with its rules.” 28 U.S.C. § 2344;

see also id. § 2342; 42 U.S.C. § 2239. “Any party aggrieved by the final order

may, within 60 days after its entry, file a petition to review the order in the court of



                                          2
appeals wherein venue lies.” 28 U.S.C. § 2344. As a “defendant-protective statute

of repose,” the Hobbs Act bars “any suit that is brought [after the] specified time . .

. even if this period ends before the plaintiff has suffered a resulting injury.”

Corner Post, Inc. v. Bd. of Gov. of Fed. Res. Sys., 603 U.S. 799, 812–13 (2024)

(quoting CTS Corp. v. Waldburger, 573 U.S. 1, 7–8 (2014)).

      The 2023 Denial Order satisfies the Hobbs Act’s requirements. The four

Extension Approvals, however, are not properly before the court, as Petitioners did

not challenge these decisions within sixty days of their entry.

      a. An appellate court may consider an otherwise-time-barred challenge to an

agency action if a more recent agency decision reopens or reconsiders the older

one. See, e.g., Public Citizen v. NRC, 901 F.2d 147, 150 (D.C. Cir. 1990). But here,

each of the NRC’s Extension Approvals was a standalone determination the

agency made, using information available at the time the extension was requested

to assess whether postponing Capsule B’s withdrawal would be appropriate and

consistent with the company’s obligations under agency regulations. Each time the

NRC approved Capsule B’s postponed withdrawal, and then when the agency

denied Petitioners’ hearing request on the latest Extension Approval in 2023, the

agency made a new decision; it did not reopen or reconsider an earlier one. Cf. id.

      The Extension Approvals do relate to the 2023 Denial Order in that they

concern the timeline for withdrawing Capsule B. But “a timely challenge to one



                                          3
[agency] order” does not ordinarily “allow[]” a party “to challenge any related

earlier orders.” Save Our Skies LA v. Fed. Aviation Admin., 50 F.4th 854, 861 (9th

Cir. 2022).

      b. Nor, contrary to Petitioners’ contention in their Reply Brief, are the

challenges to the four Extension Approvals timely on the ground that the agency

never “publishe[d]” notice of these decisions “in the Federal Register” or “g[ave]

some other kind of effective notice.”

      First, we ordinarily “review only issues which are argued specifically and

distinctly in a party’s opening brief,” and will not address arguments made only on

reply. Roley v. Google LLC, 40 F.4th 903, 911 (9th Cir. 2022) (quoting Cruz v.

Int’l Collection Corp., 673 F.3d 991, 998 (9th Cir. 2012)).

      Second, in any case, Petitioners’ argument is unavailing. As we explain

below, the Extension Approvals did not amend Diablo Canyon Unit 1’s operating

license, so notice of those decisions did not need to be published in the Federal

Register.1 See 42 U.S.C. § 2239(a)(2)(B); 10 C.F.R. §§ 2.104(a), 2.105(a), 50.91.

The NRC did file the Extension Approval on its public, online “Agencywide Data

Access and Management System” (ADAMS). That form of publication was

sufficient to “‘put[] aggrieved parties on reasonable notice of the’ action they seek


      1
       To the extent that Petitioners contend the agency separately violated the
Atomic Energy Act by failing to publish the Extension Approvals in the Federal
Register, that argument also fails because there was no license amendment.

                                        4
to challenge.” Bhd. of Locomotive Eng’rs & Trainmen v. Fed. R.R. Admin., 972

F.3d 83, 106 (D.C. Cir. 2020) (quoting JEM Broad. Co., Inc. v. FCC, 22 F.3d 320,

326 (D.C. Cir. 1994)). ADAMS is accessible to the public online and searchable by

date and keyword; the effort needed to do so is no greater (and probably less) than

finding decisions in the Federal Register, and not equivalent to “squirrel[ing]

through the Commission’s” physical files, as in Public Citizen. 901 F.2d at 153.

      In sum, the only challenged agency decision we may review is the NRC’s

2023 decision to deny Petitioners an administrative hearing regarding the latest

postponed withdrawal of Capsule B.

      2. The NRC did not violate the Atomic Energy Act by failing to offer or

hold a hearing on the agency’s 2023 Extension Approval.

      Section 189 of the Atomic Energy Act requires that the NRC “grant a

hearing upon the request of any person whose interest may be affected” by a

license amendment proceeding. 42 U.S.C. § 2239(a)(1)(A). The agency need not

provide a hearing where its action does not “in itself [constitute] a license

amendment proceeding.” San Luis Obispo Mothers for Peace v. NRC, 100 F.4th

1039, 1056 (9th Cir. 2024).

      The NRC’s 2023 Extension Approval did not amend Unit 1’s operating

license. A license amendment in 2006 allowed PG&E to “recover” to its license

term the time Unit 1 spent in low-power testing mode, before receiving its full-



                                         5
power license. Contrary to Petitioners’ argument, the Safety Evaluation appended

to the 2006 license amendment did not upgrade Unit 1’s reactor vessel surveillance

program from a three-capsule program to a four-capsule program, making the

withdrawal of Capsule B part of PG&E’s licensing obligations.

      Capsule B was never a mandatory component of Unit 1’s initial term reactor

vessel surveillance program. Instead, it was installed to collect embrittlement data

that would inform a license renewal application. Neither the text of the 2006

license amendment nor the text of the 2006 Safety Evaluation upgraded Unit 1’s

surveillance program from a three-capsule to a four-capsule program.

      The 2006 license amendment extended Unit 1’s initial license term from

September 22, 2021 to November 2, 2024; it did not mention capsule withdrawal.

The Safety Evaluation “amend[ed] the projected withdrawal for Capsule B,” while

confirming that, under Appendix H, the industry standard “of record” for Unit 1’s

surveillance program was American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM)

Standard Practice E185-70. That standard only mandates the withdrawal of three

surveillance capsules. The Safety Evaluation concluded that the recovery of Unit

1’s low-power testing time was permissible because the surveillance capsule

withdrawal schedule for Unit 1 “remain[ed] in compliance” with Appendix H and

“the ASTM E185 version[] of record for the unit[].”




                                        6
      Nor did the Safety Evaluation accompanying the 2006 license amendment

make the extension of Unit 1’s license implicitly contingent on the withdrawal of

Capsule B. In proposing to implement its supplemental surveillance program in

1992, PG&E had explained that its purpose was to “obtain additional

embrittlement data for . . . the period beyond which the original surveillance

program was designed and to improve the overall surveillance program by

incorporating, where possible, requirements” from later ASTM editions and other

industry standards. When the NRC approved that supplemental surveillance

program, it recognized that the three capsules that the company had already

designated for testing—S, Y, and V—would be removed “to determine the effect

of irradiation during the vessel’s current design life . . . [in a manner that] me[t] the

requirements of ASTM E 185-70.” The supplemental capsules, Capsule B among

them, would “provide data for the license renewal period.”

      The 2006 Safety Evaluation accorded with the government and PG&E’s

joint understanding of Capsule B’s purpose: to provide long-term embrittlement

data beyond the initial license term of Unit 1. The Evaluation recognized that the

plan for Capsule B’s withdrawal was consistent with more recent versions of

ASTM E185, but did not purport to change the applicable ASTM “version of

record.” Capsule B’s withdrawal by a particular time was thus not a tacit condition

attached to the extension of Unit 1’s initial operating term.



                                          7
      This result is consistent with the NRC’s more general position that a change

in a reactor’s surveillance capsule schedule does not ordinarily constitute a license

amendment. The agency’s “wish to verify in advance that a proposed revision [to

the withdrawal schedule] conforms to the required technical standard” under

Appendix H does not necessarily “alter the terms of the license, and does not grant

the Licensee greater operating authority.” In the Matter of Cleveland Electric Ill.

Co. (Perry Nuclear Power Plant, Unit 1), 44 N.R.C. 315, 1996 WL 813246, at *11

(1996). The agency’s review of adjustments to surveillance capsule withdrawal

schedules typically “enforces license requirements,” rather than changing them. Id.

      As PG&E had no obligation to withdraw Capsule B by a particular time

under its existing license, the NRC did not amend that license in 2023 when it

granted PG&E’s request to postpone again the withdrawal of Capsule B. The

agency therefore did not owe SLOMFP and FOE a hearing on that decision. Cf.

San Luis Obispo Mothers for Peace, 100 F.4th at 1056; San Luis Obispo Mothers

for Peace v. NRC, 449 F.3d 1016, 1025–27 (9th Cir. 2006).

      3. Because we have jurisdiction only over the 2023 Denial Order, we cannot

substantively consider whether the Extension Approvals were arbitrary and

capricious under the Administrative Procedure Act. See 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A).

      As to whether the agency acted arbitrarily and capriciously in issuing the

Denial Order itself, Petitioners do not develop this claim in their Opening Brief.



                                        8
Again, we ordinarily do not review issues not argued specifically and distinctly in

a party’s opening brief. Roley, 40 F.4th at 911. In any case, the NRC’s decision to

deny Petitioners’ hearing request was not arbitrary and capricious, both because

they were not entitled to a hearing under the Atomic Energy Act and because the

agency adequately explained the rationale for its Denial Order.

       Nor did the NRC violate the Atomic Energy Act by failing to conduct a

health and safety evaluation of the purported changes to Unit 1’s license.

Petitioners’ argument on appeal is misplaced for the same reason its claim to an

administrative hearing fails: There was no license amendment in 2023, so the

amendment-specific regulatory provision that Petitioners cites does not apply. And

in any event, the NRC did conduct a separate Safety Evaluation each time it

considered whether to grant PG&E’s requested postponement and concluded that

each postponement would be acceptable under the relevant standard.

                                      ****

      We share Petitioners’ concerns about the public health and safety

implications of repeatedly postponing Capsule B’s withdrawal. It has been about

two decades since PG&E withdrew and tested a surveillance capsule from the Unit

1 reactor vessel—and even longer since a surveillance capsule withdrawn from

Unit 1 generated credible data. Although Unit 1’s operating license has now

officially expired, the reactor continues to operate under the NRC’s “timely



                                        9
renewal” rule because PG&E has submitted a license renewal application. San Luis

Obispo Mothers for Peace, 100 F.4th at 1056–58 (citing 10 C.F.R. § 2.109(b)).

      Capsule B remains a key source of data for the license renewal period.

Under the current schedule, PG&E is slated to remove Capsule B in the spring of

2025 and use it to inform the company’s pending license renewal application for

Unit 1. Any further delay in Capsule B’s withdrawal will mean that PG&E lacks a

critical data source about the future integrity of the reactor vessel, without which a

future license renewal may be subject to legal challenge.

      We conclude that SLOMFP and FOE’s current challenge to the NRC’s 2023

Denial Order cannot be sustained.

      PETITION FOR REVIEW DENIED.




                                        10
