                  FOR PUBLICATION

   UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
        FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

NORTH CASCADES                              No. 24-1422
CONSERVATION COUNCIL, A
                                             D.C. No.
nonprofit Washington corporation,
                                          2:22-cv-00293-
                                               SAB
             Plaintiff - Appellant,

 v.
                                             OPINION
UNITED STATES FOREST
SERVICE, A federal agency of the
United States Department of
Agriculture; KRISTIN BAIL, In her
official capacity as Forest Supervisor,
Okanogan-Wenatchee National
Forest, United States Forest Service,

             Defendants - Appellees.

       Appeal from the United States District Court
          for the Eastern District of Washington
      Stanley Allen Bastian, District Judge, Presiding

         Argued and Submitted February 14, 2025
                  Seattle, Washington

                        May 2, 2025
2                         NCCC V. USFS


    Before: William A. Fletcher, Ronald M. Gould, and
          Jacqueline H. Nguyen, Circuit Judges.

                    Opinion by Judge Gould


                          SUMMARY *


                      Environmental Law

    The panel affirmed in part and reversed in part the
district court’s summary judgment in favor of the United
States Forest Service in an action brought by North Cascades
Conservation Council challenging the Forest Service’s
approval of the Twisp Restoration Project, a forest thinning
project in the Okanogan-Wenatchee National Forest in
Washington.
    Affirming in part, the panel held that the Forest Service
was not required under the National Environmental Policy
Act (NEPA) to repeat the public comment process between
the draft Environmental Assessment (EA) and the final EA
because there was an absence of evidence that the
intervening Cedar Creek Fire posed new environmental
questions or rendered the public’s comments on the Draft
EA irrelevant. The panel also held that the Forest Service
considered a reasonable range of alternatives under NEPA,
that the Forest Service’s use of the condition-based



*
 This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
                        NCCC V. USFS                        3


management process did not inherently violate NEPA, and
that such process was permissibly applied here.
    Reversing in part, the panel held that the EA’s discussion
of the Twisp Restoration Project’s cumulative effects was
insufficient under NEPA because it did not discuss the
cumulative effects of the Twisp Restoration Project in
combination with the Midnight Restoration Project, which
was originally part of the Twisp Restoration Project as
envisioned in the Draft EA. The panel remanded for the
district court to enter an appropriate order requiring the
Forest Service to remedy the deficiencies in the EA in a
timely manner, and to determine whether, in light of its
revised cumulative effects analysis, an environmental
impact statement (EIS) is necessary.



                        COUNSEL

William H. Sherlock (argued), Hutchinson Cox, Eugene,
Oregon, for Plaintiff-Appellant.
Shaun M. Pettigrew (argued), Andrew M. Bernie, and
Rachel Heron, Attorneys; Todd Kimm, Assistant Attorney
General;      National    Oceanic      and    Atmospheric
Administration, Damage Assessment; Environment and
Natural Resources Division, United States Department of
Justice; Seattle, Washington, for Defendants-Appellees.
Sarah E. Melton and Sara Ghafouri, American Forest
Resource Council, Portland, Oregon, for Amicus Curiae
American Forest Resource Council.
4                       NCCC V. USFS


Jonathan Wood and Dylan Soares, Property and
Environment Research Center, Bozeman, Montana, for
Amicus Curiae Property and Environment Research Center.



                         OPINION

GOULD, Circuit Judge:

    All judges supporting the continuation of life on our
planet need to be sensitive to environmental considerations.
Since the 1970s, the United States Congress has passed a
succession of environmental laws (for well-known
examples, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Clean
Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and
the Endangered Species Act). Interest groups favoring
deregulation and a hands-off approach to business have also
placed their oars in disputed waters of public opinion and
advocacy. The judiciary has an important role to play in
interpreting and applying our environmental laws fairly to
resolve disputes between parties, when competing interests
are at stake. The case before us involves competing interests
of logging and environmental interest groups. We point out
that there is a practical distinction between, on the one hand,
logging for the sake only of harvesting timber, and, on the
other hand, thinning trees in a forest for the purpose of
promoting a healthier and more resilient forest, better able to
suppress or to weather the tidal wave of wildfires afflicting
the country. However, almost all judges would agree that
the law must be applied impartially, whether invoked by
business groups, environmental groups, or some other
interest.
                        NCCC V. USFS                         5


    North Cascades Conservation Council (“NCCC”)
appeals the district court’s grant of summary judgment in
favor of the United States Forest Service (“Forest Service”)
on NCCC’s claims in connection with the Forest Service’s
approval of the Twisp Restoration Project. The Twisp
Restoration Project covers 24,140 acres of forest land within
the Okanogan-Wenatchee National Forest (“Forest”). Its
stated purpose is to make the Forest less vulnerable to high
intensity wildfires, insect infestations, and disease outbreaks
by authorizing, among other treatments, tree-thinning and
prescribed burnings.
    The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
(“NEPA”) is a procedural statute that “requires federal
agencies to take a ‘hard look’ at the environmental
consequences of their actions.” Env’t. Def. Ctr. v. Bureau of
Ocean & Energy Mgmt., 36 F.4th 850, 872 (9th Cir. 2022).
NEPA requires agencies to prepare an Environmental
Impact Statement (“EIS”) for “major Federal actions.” 42
U.S.C. § 4332(C). If an agency is unsure whether its action
will have significant environmental impacts, it may prepare
an Environmental Assessment (“EA”) first. 40 C.F.R.
§ 1508.1(j) (2024).
    NCCC contends that the Forest Service was required
under NEPA to repeat the public comment process after
circulating its final EA. NCCC also contends that the EA
that the Forest Service prepared in order to determine
whether an EIS was necessary is insufficient under NEPA.
Finally, NCCC contends that NEPA requires an EIS in
connection with the Twisp Restoration Project.
   We have jurisdiction to review this appeal under 28
U.S.C. § 1291. We affirm in part and reverse in part.
Affirming in part, we conclude that the Forest Service was
6                           NCCC V. USFS


not required to repeat the public comment process between
the draft EA and the final EA; and that the EA considers a
reasonable range of alternatives. Reversing in part, we
conclude that the EA’s discussion of the Twisp Restoration
Project’s cumulative effects is insufficient under NEPA. We
reverse and remand for the district court to enter an
appropriate order requiring the Forest Service to remedy the
deficiencies in the EA in a timely manner. 1
    I. FACTS AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY
                                   A
    The Twisp Restoration Project area at issue lies in a
portion of the Forest managed by the Forest Service under a
1989 land and resources management plan (the “Forest
Plan”). In November 2012, the Forest Service finalized a
document entitled “The Okanogan-Wenatchee National
Forest Restoration Strategy: adaptive ecosystem
management to restore landscape resiliency” (the
“Restoration Strategy”). The Restoration Strategy identified
the need “to restore the sustainability and resiliency of
forested ecosystems” in the Forest, because of increased
susceptibility to wildfire, insect outbreaks, and habitat
decline. With this goal in mind, the Forest Service identified
Potential Landscape Treatment Areas (“PLTAs”). Projects,
such as the one at issue in this case, were then developed
within the PLTAs.
   In April 2019, the Forest Service completed the Twisp
Landscape Evaluation. This Evaluation determined that

1
 Because we reverse in part and remand for a reassessment of the EA,
we need not decide at this time whether an EIS had to be prepared. The
panel, however, retains jurisdiction to consider any future appeal in this
case.
                        NCCC V. USFS                          7


previous management in the Twisp Restoration Project area
“has caused widespread degradation of forest, rangeland,
watershed condition and stream habitat, and has increased
the risks of uncharacteristically severe wildfire,” resulting in
a need for ecological restoration projects. The Evaluation
reached this conclusion by comparing current conditions
with “reference conditions,” defined as the historic and
projected future range of ecosystem composition in the
Twisp Restoration Project area, to “identify significant areas
of departure.” The Evaluation determined that prescribed
burning could be used to thin out vegetative fuel to reduce
the risk of severe wildfire while tree-thinning could create
space for larger and more resilient trees, and road-related
impacts on the aquatic environment could be mitigated via
closing, relocating, and upgrading roads.
    Development of the Twisp Restoration Project began in
June 2019, in a 79,682-acre area of the Methow Valley
Ranger District covered by the Twisp Evaluation. In
November 2019, a scoping letter was sent to 362 individuals,
groups, and agencies describing the proposed project,
scheduling a public open house, and inviting comments on
the proposal. The scoping letter described five needs for a
77,038-acre area within the Methow Valley Ranger District,
which were incorporated in the Draft EA: (1) protecting
riparian habitat for ESA-listed species and increasing
watershed resiliency; (2) increasing vegetation resiliency;
(3) creating and maintaining wildlife habitat, including late-
successional and old-growth forest; (4) modifying the areas
of the Forest in and around the Wildlife-Urban Interface to
reduce fire intensity and allow better access for firefighting
crews; and (5) improving the transportation system in the
Forest.
8                           NCCC V. USFS


                                   B
    The Forest Service provided thirty days for public
comment on the initially disclosed details of the Twisp
Restoration Project. After receiving responses, including a
response from NCCC, the Forest Service issued a Draft EA
in October 2020. The Draft EA considered a no-action
alternative and a proposed action alternative. The Draft EA
also considered several other alternatives but eliminated
them from detailed study because the Forest Service
concluded that these other alternatives would not meet the
needs of the Twisp Restoration Project. The Draft EA’s
proposed action, which involved understory thinning,
overstory thinning, prescribed burning, and other activities,
would take place over 77,037 acres during a thirty-year
timeframe. 2
    The Forest Service initially provided only thirty days for
comment on the Draft EA. But the comment period was
extended an additional month because of the intervening
COVID-19 pandemic. During that time, the Forest Service
also hosted a virtual open house and facilitated a self-guided
tour of the Twisp Restoration Project area. The Forest
Service received 1,029 comments on the Draft EA. These
included comments from NCCC and its members.
                                   C
   In August 2021, between the close of the Draft EA
comment period and the release of the Final EA, the Cedar

2
  Overstory thinning refers to the removal of large trees that make up the
forest canopy, while understory thinning refers to the removal of smaller
trees and shrubs between the forest canopy and the ground. See
Overstory,           Merriam-Webster,              https://www.merriam-
webster.com/dictionary/overstory; Understory, Merriam-Webster,
https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/understory.
                        NCCC V. USFS                          9


Creek Fire burned through areas of the Forest originally
included in the Twisp Restoration Project area. In response,
the Forest Service revised the proposed project to omit areas
potentially affected by the fire, explaining those revisions in
a virtual public meeting in January 2022. Without reopening
the public comment period, the Forest Service released the
Final EA in April 2022. The Final EA, like the Draft EA,
analyzed in the detailed study only the proposed action
alternative and the no-action alternative, and the five stated
Project needs remained largely the same.
    Because of the Cedar Creek Fire, the Forest Service
reduced the size of the Twisp Restoration Project by 69%,
excluding most of the area burned by the fire, along with a
significant area that was not burned by the fire. The roughly
50,000-acre area excluded from the Twisp Restoration
Project became a separate proposed project, the Midnight
Restoration Project. As a result of the overall reduction in
acreage, the Forest Service’s proposed actions were also
reduced: proposed understory thinning decreased by 55%,
proposed overstory thinning decreased by 63%, and
prescribed fire treatments decreased by 55%. Proposed
actions in certain areas were dropped, and temporary haul
roads and haul routes were reduced or modified.
    In response to comments, the expected duration of the
Twisp Restoration Project decreased from thirty years to
twenty. The Final EA provided for, among other actions,
non-commercial understory vegetation thinning on up to
13,812 acres; commercial overstory vegetation treatments
on up to 8,151 acres targeting trees of a certain diameter; fuel
reduction via prescribed burning; the removal of hazardous
trees; the replacement of culverts; and the construction,
maintenance, and closure of roads.
10                      NCCC V. USFS


    The Forest Service released a draft Decision Notice
(“DN”) and Finding of No Significant Impact (“FONSI”)
concurrently with the Final EA. Under Forest Service
regulations, this triggered a 45-day period during which
individuals and organizations who previously commented
on the scoping letter of the Draft EA could object to the Final
EA or draft DN/FONSI. 36 C.F.R. §§ 218.2, 218.5. The
scope of those objections could include “new information
that arose after the opportunities for comment.” 36 C.F.R.
§ 218.8(c). The Forest Service received several objections,
including extensive objections from NCCC. The Acting
Deputy Regional Forester discussed those objections in a
meeting with objectors on July 12, 2022, and provided
written responses to the objectors two weeks later. The
Forest Supervisor adopted the proposed action concerning
the Twisp Restoration Project in a final DN/FONSI dated
July 20, 2022. The FONSI concluded that an EIS was not
required because the Twisp Restoration Project would not
“have a significant effect on the quality of the human
environment.”
                              D
    NCCC filed its complaint on November 22, 2022,
alleging three claims of NEPA violation, and a claim for
relief under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, which
NCCC later voluntarily waived in its motion for summary
judgment. The Forest Service filed a cross-motion for
summary judgment. On January 17, 2024, the district court,
in a written opinion and order, granted Defendants’ cross-
motion, denied Plaintiff’s motion, and entered judgment for
Defendants. NCCC appeals the district court’s final order
and judgment.
                        NCCC V. USFS                        11


  II. STANDARD OF REVIEW
    We review the district court’s grant of summary
judgment de novo. Native Ecosystems Council v. Marten,
883 F.3d 783, 789 (9th Cir. 2018). The Administrative
Procedure Act (“APA”) governs our review of the Forest
Service’s compliance with NEPA. See Lands Council v.
McNair, 537 F.3d 981, 987 (9th Cir. 2008) (en banc); Karuk
Tribe of Cal. v. U.S. Forest Serv., 681 F.3d 1006, 1017 (9th
Cir. 2012) (en banc). Under the APA, we may set aside the
Forest Service’s decision only if it is “arbitrary, capricious,
an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with
law.” 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A). This deferential standard
requires us to “‘ensure that the agency considered the
relevant factors and articulated a rational connection
between the facts found and the choices made.’” Greater
Yellowstone Coal., Inc. v. Servheen, 665 F.3d 1015, 1023
(9th Cir. 2011) (quoting Nw. Ecosystem All. v. U.S. Fish &
Wildlife Serv., 475 F.3d 1136, 1140 (9th Cir. 2007)). But it
does not let us “substitute our judgment for that of the
agency.” Id.
  III. DISCUSSION
    NCCC contends that the Forest Service violated NEPA
because its EA is inadequate and does not constitute the
requisite “hard look” at potential environmental impacts.
Specifically, NCCC contends that the Forest Service was
required under NEPA to reopen the comment period
following the changes made to the Twisp Restoration Project
in response to the Cedar Creek Fire. NCCC also contends
that in issuing the EA, the Forest Service used an overly
narrow statement of need and purpose and did not consider
a reasonable range of alternatives. Finally, NCCC contends
that the EA does not contain a reasonably thorough
12                      NCCC V. USFS


discussion of the Twisp Restoration Project’s direct,
indirect, or cumulative effects because the EA relies on
maximum effects analysis and does not address the Midnight
Restoration Project. We consider each argument in turn.
     A. The public comment process
    First, we address NCCC’s argument that the Forest
Service was required under NEPA to repeat the public
comment process after the Cedar Creek Fire led to changes
between the Draft EA and the Final EA. We have held that
NEPA requires an agency preparing an EA to “provide the
public with sufficient environmental information,
considered in the totality of circumstances, to permit
members of the public to weigh in with their views and thus
inform the agency decision-making process.” Bering Strait
Citizens for Responsible Res. Dev. v. U.S. Army Corps of
Eng’rs, 524 F.3d 938, 953 (9th Cir. 2008). Here, the Forest
Service did so.
    “[A]n agency is required to repeat the public comment
process when the EA includes substantial changes relevant
to environmental concerns.” Earth Island Inst. v. U.S.
Forest Serv., 87 F.4th 1054, 1067 (9th Cir. 2023); see also
California v. Block, 690 F.2d 753, 771 (9th Cir. 1982)
(repeating the public comment process is unnecessary “when
only minor modifications are made” to a draft EA). Where
a change to a proposed action only lessens the environmental
impact, we are less likely to consider it a substantial change.
See Russell Country Sportsmen v. U.S. Forest Serv., 668
F.3d 1037, 1048 (9th Cir. 2011) (considering the Forest
Service’s obligation to prepare a supplemental draft EA).
   NCCC contends that the changes made in response to the
Cedar Creek Fire—namely the reduction in size of the Twisp
Restoration Project by 69%, and the ensuing changes to
                        NCCC V. USFS                       13


temporary haul roads and haul routes necessitated by the
reduced size—are substantial changes triggering a
requirement to repeat the public comment process under
NEPA. We disagree. First, the factors we identified in Block
weigh against the conclusion that the modifications here are
substantial. Second, like the modification at issue in Russell
Country Sportsmen, the modification here lessens the
environmental impact of the Twisp Restoration Project, and
the circumstances in which a modification that lessens
impacts may still require supplementation do not apply here.
See Russell Country Sportsmen, 668 F.3d at 1048–1049.
    Block encourages us to consider (1) whether a proposed
action was within the range of alternatives the public could
have reasonably anticipated the Forest Service to consider,
and (2) whether the public’s comments on the draft EA apply
to the chosen alternative or inform the Forest Service of the
public’s attitudes toward the chosen alternative. See 690
F.2d at 772. Here, the public could not have foreseen that
the fire would cause the Forest Service to reduce the scope
of the Twisp Restoration Project so significantly. But the
Draft EA did make the public aware that the Twisp
Restoration Project would encompass the current Project
area; the Final EA only reduced the overall Project area, as
opposed to expanding it into a new area.
    The substance of the proposed treatments and the method
of determining where and when they will be applied also
remain unchanged between the Draft EA and the Final EA.
Cf. id. (concluding that decisional criteria employed in the
Proposed Action differed from the criteria employed in the
Draft EA). As a result, most of the public comments (for
instance, those relating to commercial timber harvest, the
duration of the Twisp Restoration Project, the amount of
condition-based management, and alternative fire treatment
14                      NCCC V. USFS


options) remain relevant to the Final EA and inform the
Forest Service of the public’s opinion with respect to the
Final EA. Cf. id. (concluding that “the relevance of public
comment on the draft EIS” was seriously diluted).
    Because the proposed modifications reduce the scope of
the Forest Service’s proposed actions, these modifications
also lessen the environmental impact of the Twisp
Restoration Project, making it less likely that the
modification was substantial.          See Russell Country
Sportsmen, 668 F.3d at 1048–49.             Russell Country
Sportsmen notes that a new alternative that lessens the
environmental impacts yet alters the overall cost-benefit
analysis, goes “to the heart” of the proposed action, or poses
new environmental questions that may require
supplementation.      Id. at 1048–49.       None of those
circumstances appear here.
    First, the Forest Service is not justifying adverse
environmental impact by citing some other benefit that has
been diminished by the reduced scope, so the cost-benefit
rationale does not control here. See id. (citing Massachusetts
v. Watt, 716 F.2d 946, 948–49 (1st Cir. 1983)). Second,
because the proposed treatments have not substantively
changed in response to the Cedar Creek Fire, the
modification does not go “to the heart” of the proposed
action. Id. at 1049. Finally, because the Twisp Restoration
Project has only been reduced in scope and because the
reduced area was not substantially affected by the Cedar
Creek Fire, “there is very little reason to believe the modified
plan will have environmental impacts that the agency has not
already considered.” Id.
   Reducing the scope of a proposed project after a wildfire
could lead to different environmental impacts that might in
                             NCCC V. USFS                               15


some cases justify repeating the public comment period. As
an example of that possibility, new environmental stressors
could result from a wildfire, or fire mitigation efforts might
be less effective if not performed over a greater geographic
scope. Here, however, the record does not show any
evidence of such concerns. The only new concern raised by
NCCC is lack of analysis in the Final EA specific to project
areas omitted from the Final EA. We have seen no evidence
that the public has other new concerns resulting from the
reduction in geographic scope. Because the circumstances
raised by Russell Country Sportsmen are not present here,
we conclude that the original public comment process
sufficiently permitted the public “to weigh in with their
views and thus inform the agency decision-making process.”
See Bering Strait Citizens for Responsible Res. Dev., 524
F.3d at 953. 3
       B. Range of alternatives
    NCCC next contends that the EA violates NEPA because
the Forest Service relied upon an overly narrow statement of
“purpose and need” in the EA and did not consider a
reasonable range of alternatives. We reject this contention.
   NEPA requires agencies to “give full and meaningful
consideration to all reasonable alternatives” in an EA. N.
Idaho Cmty. Action Network v. U.S. Dep’t of Transp., 545
F.3d 1147, 1153 (9th Cir. 2008). Although an agency’s

3
  To the extent that NCCC argues that the APA, rather than NEPA,
required the Forest Service to repeat the public comment process, NCCC
waived any claim based on the APA’s notice and comment requirement
by not asserting that claim before the district court. See Baccei v. United
States, 632 F.3d 1140, 1149 (9th Cir. 2011) (“Absent exceptional
circumstances, we generally will not consider arguments raised for the
first time on appeal, although we have discretion to do so.”).
16                      NCCC V. USFS


discussion of alternatives may be briefer in an EA compared
to discussion in an EIS, an agency’s failure to explore a
viable alternative in an EA is still a violation of NEPA. W.
Watersheds Project v. Abbey, 719 F.3d 1035, 1050 (9th Cir.
2013). “In considering which alternatives to analyze,
agencies must provide a ‘detailed statement’ regarding why
they were eliminated or not considered.” Env’t. Def. Ctr. v.
Bureau of Ocean & Energy Mgmt., 36 F.4th 850, 876 (9th
Cir. 2022) (citing 40 C.F.R. §§ 1502.14(a); 1508.9(b)).
         1. Purpose and need statement
    Agencies have “‘considerable discretion to define the
purpose and need of a project.’” Westlands Water Dist. v.
U.S. Dep’t of Interior, 376 F.3d 853, 866 (9th Cir. 2004)
(quoting Friends of Se.’s Future v. Morrison, 153 F.3d 1059,
1066 (9th Cir. 1998)). But this discretion is not unlimited
and unbounded. “The stated goal of a project necessarily
dictates the range of ‘reasonable’ alternatives, and an agency
cannot define its objectives in unreasonably narrow terms.”
City of Carmel-by-the-Sea v. U.S. Dep’t of Transp., 123 F.3d
1142, 1155 (9th Cir. 1997). A statement of purpose and need
is unreasonably narrow if it preordains the outcome. Env’t
Def. Ctr., 36 F.4th at 876.
    Here, as stated in our review of facts above, the Forest
Service identified its purposes of the proposed Project:
(1) protect and maintain aquatic, riparian, and hydrologic
resources and restore areas impacted by past management;
(2) modify vegetation structure, composition, and patterns to
develop, maintain, or restore healthy forest stand structures
that can respond to wildfire and climate change in a resilient
manner and that are consistent with historic and future
ranges of variability; (3) protect, develop, and/or enhance
late and old forest stands for wildlife species dependent on
                        NCCC V. USFS                        17


them and reduce the risk of large-scale habitat loss to fires
by increasing resilience of habitats to wildfire; (4) modify
the structure, composition, and pattern of forest stands in and
around the Wildlife-Urban Interface to reduce fire intensity
and enable the use of direct firefighting strategies; and
(5) provide a transportation system that is affordable, safe,
and efficient for administration, public use, and protection of
Forest Service lands.
    These purposes are stated broadly and are not overly
narrow. NCCC contends that stated needs one through four
rely on circular logic by arguing that additional fire
suppression and timber harvest will not solve problems
created by past fire suppression and timber harvest. This
argument challenges the logic of the Twisp Restoration
Project’s proposed actions, rather than the statement of
purpose and needs, which does not necessarily require fire
suppression or timber harvesting.           Indeed, NCCC
acknowledges that some of the Twisp Restoration Project’s
stated needs are “admirable in the abstract” and that it takes
issue only with the Twisp Restoration Project’s method of
addressing those needs. NCCC does not explain how the
needs identified are unreasonably defined and would
“foreclose consideration” of alternative restoration
measures. Westlands Water Dist., 376 F.3d at 867.
    NCCC also contends that the premise underlying the
statement of needs is flawed because the Final EA does not
explain how aligning the Twisp Restoration Project area
with the “desirable ‘historic’ conditions” the Forest Service
identified would make the Forest more resilient or how the
proposed treatments will result in the Forest’s return to those
conditions. NCCC did not raise this challenge before the
district court, and we decline to address it here. Baccei, 632
F.3d at 1149.
18                      NCCC V. USFS


         2. “Phased approach” and “natural succession
            approach”
    “That the statement of ‘purpose and need’ did not violate
NEPA’s procedural commands does not necessarily mean
that the agencies considered a reasonable range of
alternatives . . . .” Env’t Def. Ctr., 36 F.4th at 876–77. “The
existence of a ‘viable but unexamined alternative’ renders
the environmental review conducted under NEPA
inadequate.” Id. (quoting Westlands Water Dist., 376 F.3d
at 868). But agencies do not need to consider alternatives
that are not feasible, ineffective, or inconsistent with an
area’s management objectives, N. Alaska Env’t Ctr. v.
Kempthorne, 457 F.3d 969, 978 (9th Cir. 2006), or
alternatives that do not advance the project’s purpose, Native
Ecosystem Council v. U.S. Forest Serv., 428 F.3d 1233, 1247
(9th Cir. 2005). An EA must consider a “no action”
alternative and a “preferred alternative.” See id. at 1245–46.
Beyond that, there is no “numerical floor on alternatives to
be considered.” Id. at 1246.
    We conclude that here the Forest Service sufficiently
analyzed viable alternatives under NEPA. The Forest
Service analyzed in depth both a no-action alternative and a
proposed action alternative. The Forest Service also
included a discussion of eleven other alternatives rejected
from detailed study. See Env’t. Def. Ctr., 36 F.4th at 876.
Nonetheless, NCCC contends that the Forest Service did not
examine two viable alternatives: the “phrased approach” and
the “natural succession approach.”
   The “phrased approach” would split the Twisp
Restoration Project into four or five project “phases”
executed one after the other. An initial project would be
analyzed, approved, and implemented in a three-to-five-year
                         NCCC V. USFS                         19


time span. This initial project would be followed by
monitoring, reconsideration, and, if necessary, three or four
more successive planning processes to approve each
subsequent project phase. The EA addresses and rejects this
alternative. Although the Forest Service acknowledged that
it could create additional opportunities to receive public
input and to gather monitoring data, this alternative “was not
developed further” because it would break up each treatment
into three phases (analysis, approval, and implementation),
“roughly tripling the time spent on analysis and
implementation, deferring implementation of treatments . . .
and delaying planning efforts for other restoration projects.”
The Forest Service correctly determined that such a
significant delay in implementing proposed treatments
would render the phased approach ineffective, because it
would require the Forest Service to analyze and implement
each proposed treatment in successive phases, rather than
analyzing and implementing multiple treatments
concurrently. See N. Alaska Env’t Ctr., 457 F.3d at 978.
    The EA similarly discusses and rejects the “natural
succession” alternative, concluding that it is encompassed by
the no-action alternative. See id. (alternatives similar to
those discussed need not be addressed). NCCC contends
that a natural succession alternative differs from the no-
action alternative, because it would eliminate human
intervention, whereas the no-action alternative provides for
standard resource protection and maintenance activities. In
reply to the Forest Service’s argument that such an
alternative would prevent the Forest Service from carrying
out its legally required management responsibilities, NCCC
claims that the natural succession alternative “would still
allow the Forest Service to fulfill its obligation to utilize the
forest for multiple uses” and “would necessarily require
20                      NCCC V. USFS


some amount of modification to the vegetation and wildlife
habitat.”
     We conclude that NCCC has not met its burden to show
that the natural succession alternative is a feasible
alternative. See Morongo Band of Mission Indians v. FAA,
161 F.3d 569, 576–77 (9th Cir. 1998). It is not clear how a
natural succession alternative could simultaneously
eliminate human intervention, let the Forest Service fulfill
its legal obligations, and require modification to the Forest.
Because NCCC has not provided sufficient detail to
determine what a natural succession alternative would
involve, we conclude that the Forest Service was not
obligated under NEPA to consider it.
     C. Direct, indirect, and cumulative effects
    NCCC contends that the EA does not adequately
consider the direct, indirect, and cumulative effects of the
Twisp Restoration Project. An EA must contain a
“‘reasonably thorough discussion of the significant aspects
of probable environmental consequences,’” so that we can
ensure the agency took a “hard look.” Neighbors of Cuddy
Mountain v. U.S. Forest Serv., 137 F.3d 1372, 1376 (9th Cir.
1998) (quoting Or. Nat. Res. Council v. Lowe, 109 F.3d 521,
526 (9th Cir. 1997)). “To ‘consider’ cumulative effects,
some quantified or detailed information is required.” Id. at
1379. “General statements about ‘possible’ effects and
‘some risk’ do not constitute a ‘hard look’ absent a
justification regarding why more definitive information
could not be provided.” Id. at 1380. “Nor is it appropriate
to defer consideration of cumulative impacts to a future
date.” Id.
                        NCCC V. USFS                        21


         1. Condition-based management
    NCCC contends that reliance on condition-based
management and maximum effects analysis violates
NEPA’s requirement that the agency take a “hard look” at
the proposed action’s impacts.                Condition-based
management involves developing proposed treatments based
on pre-identified management requirements but deferring
specific decisions about which treatments will be applied in
particular locations until the Forest Service conducts pre-
implementation field reviews. The Forest Service asserts
that this method lets the Forest Service be more flexible and
responsive to conditions on the ground at the time that the
treatments are applied. However, it prevents the Forest
Service from giving the public important detail about a
project’s effects. In an attempt to mitigate this downside of
condition-based management, the Forest Service used
“maximum effects” analysis, which considers the maximum
potential effects of a project assuming all possible treatments
are implemented.         NCCC nevertheless contends that
“[c]ondition-based management is inherently violative of
NEPA because it fails to inform the Public what will in fact
occur as the project is implemented over its twenty-year
lifespan.”
    We conclude that the Forest Service’s site-specific
maximum effects analysis was sufficient here. NCCC relies
on a district court decision in Southeast Alaska Conservation
Council v. United States Forest Service, 443 F. Supp. 3d 995
(D. Alaska 2020). Southeast Alaska Conservation Council
is not persuasive here. First, an EIS was at issue there, which
“must compare the environmental impacts of different
alternatives, not just determine whether environmental
impacts will occur,” and so requires more detailed
information than an EA. Id. at 1013. Second, that case
22                      NCCC V. USFS


involved the application of condition-based management to
1.8 million acres, and the project’s EIS omitted the location
of proposed timber harvest and road construction. Id. at
1009.     The project EIS there did not “include a
determination—or even an estimate—of when and where the
harvest activities or road construction authorized by each
alternative will actually occur.” Id. at 1009.
    Here, by contrast, the total area subject to condition-
based management is at most 21,149 acres. Within that fairly
small area, the Forest Service has identified specific methods
of understory thinning, overstory treatments, and fuels
reduction and provided unit-by-unit maps of the maximum
effects of each treatment. The Forest Service’s maximum
effects analysis here would give the public significantly
more information than did the maximum effects analysis in
Southeast Alaska Conservation Council about where
proposed activities may occur and which specific methods
will be used. See id. at 1010 (stating that the EIS there “does
not delineate harvest units, let alone identify planned
activities within them.”).
    This is a close case, and we share the Southeast Alaska
Conservation Council district court’s concern that excessive
reliance on condition-based management detracts from a
decisionmaker’s or public participant’s ability to assess a
proposed action’s environmental consequences. See id. at
1014. But because of the small size of this project and the
extensive mapping provided, we conclude that the Forest
Service’s information about where treatments will occur and
the maximum effects of those treatments is sufficiently
                            NCCC V. USFS                               23


quantified and detailed to satisfy NEPA’s requirements for
EAs. 4
           2. Midnight Restoration Project
    NCCC further contends that the EA is insufficient under
NEPA because it does not discuss the cumulative effects of
the Twisp Restoration Project in combination with the
Midnight Restoration Project, which was originally part of
the Twisp Restoration Project as envisioned in the Draft EA.
On this issue, we agree with NCCC that the EA is
insufficient under NEPA. We have held that when
considering a project’s cumulative effects, an agency must
consider other “reasonably foreseeable” projects. Env’t
Prot. Info. Ctr. v. U.S. Forest Serv. (EPIC), 451 F.3d 1005,
1014 (9th Cir. 2006).
    The Forest Service contends that EPIC controls the
outcome of this case. That case involved a proposed timber
sale (“Knob”) that was originally part of a larger, abandoned
project (“Comet”). Id. In its cumulative effects analysis for
the Knob project, the Forest Service did not consider a
second timber sale (“Meteor”) that was also originally a part
of Comet. Id. Despite the projects’ common origin, we held
that it was not arbitrary or capricious for the Forest Service
to omit Meteor, because Meteor was “in the initial planning
stage” and its parameters were unknown. Id. at 1014–15.


4
  NCCC also contends that the EA does not correctly determine the
Twisp Restoration Project’s maximum effects, because it does not
consider additional trees that might be removed pursuant to the Twisp
Restoration Project’s exceptions to cutting restrictions. Because NCCC
did not raise this argument either before the Forest Service or before the
district court, we conclude that NCCC’s argument is waived. See All.
for the Wild Rockies v. Petrick, 68 F.4th 475, 487–88 (9th Cir. 2023).
24                      NCCC V. USFS


    Like the projects in EPIC, the Twisp Restoration Project
and Midnight Restoration Project share a common origin.
After the Cedar Creek Fire burned part of the original Twisp
Restoration Project area as conceived in the Draft EA, the
Forest Service removed most areas affected by the fire from
the proposed action. While the Twisp Restoration Project as
proposed by the Final EA primarily covers area unaffected
by the fire, the Midnight Restoration Project covers the
remainder of the proposed project area as envisioned by the
Draft EA.
     But we agree with NCCC that EPIC is distinguishable
from this case. Although the Forest Service had not decided
if it would develop the Midnight Restoration Project as of a
month before the Final EA’s release, a Forest Service official
wrote via email that he “anticipate[d] that the decision
whether to take Midnight forward as a project or not will
happen in the next month,” and that he thought it was “likely
that Midnight will be developed as a project.” In EPIC, the
specifics of the treatment prescriptions and the size of the
Meteor project were unknown, and there is no indication that
the Forest Service had done any work to estimate the
environmental impacts of the second timber sale. Id. at
1014. Here, by contrast, the Forest Service’s original Draft
EA analyzed proposed treatments and their impacts
throughout the entire Midnight Project area.
    Although the Cedar Creek Fire introduced uncertainty as
to which treatments were needed and the extent of the
treatments needed, there is little indication in the record that
the fire would have significantly changed the Forest
Service’s approach in the Midnight Restoration Project area,
particularly because the majority of the Midnight
Restoration Project area was not directly impacted by the
fire. To the contrary, a Forest Service official acknowledged
                        NCCC V. USFS                        25


that, “The early indications are that there is still a need for
treatments post-fire,” and “[d]ata from the original Twisp
Restoration analysis would help inform the proposed action
with some updates to reflect the changes from the fire.” The
Forest Service here, then, had significantly more information
about the potential effects of Midnight than the Forest
Service had about Meteor in EPIC.
    Finally, unlike in EPIC, the Forest Service made no
effort to analyze the effect of the Midnight Restoration
Project in its response to comments or objections. Cf. id. at
1014–15 (“[L]ater, in response to comments to the EA, [the
Forest Service] did analyze the effect of the Meteor project
based on the information known about the proposed project
at that time.” (emphasis in original)). Rather, the Forest
Service only said that the areas removed from the Twisp
Restoration Project were “under assessment to determine the
degree to which” the areas were affected by the fire. This
absence of quantified or detailed information is not sufficient
to rectify the Forest Service’s NEPA violation. Given the
extent of the information the Forest Service had, the
Midnight Restoration Project and its effects were reasonably
foreseeable, and the Forest Service had a duty to analyze the
Midnight Restoration Project in the Final EA. We hold that
the Forest Service did not take the “hard look” required by
NEPA, and we reverse the district court’s grant of summary
judgment in favor of the Forest Service on this issue.
    Because we reverse on this issue, we do not reach
NCCC’s contentions that the Forest Service should have
prepared an EIS for the Twisp Restoration Project. While a
full EIS may be necessary in light of the Twisp Restoration
Project’s cumulative effects, we leave that decision for the
Forest Service to consider in the first instance on remand.
See W. Watersheds Project, 719 F.3d at 1053–54 (declining
26                     NCCC V. USFS


to reach the question of whether the agency should have
prepared an EIS where the EA process was deficient); Or.
Nat. Desert Ass’n v. Bureau of Land Mgmt., 625 F.3d 1092,
1124 (9th Cir. 2010) (“NEPA is not a paper exercise, and
new analyses may point in new directions.”).
 IV. CONCLUSION
    We hold that the Forest Service was not required to
repeat the public comment process because there is an
absence of evidence that the Cedar Creek Fire poses new
environmental questions or renders the public’s comments
on the Draft EA irrelevant. We also hold that the Forest
Service considered a reasonable range of alternatives under
NEPA, that the Forest Service’s use of the “condition-based
management” process does not inherently violate NEPA,
and that such process was permissibly applied here. By
contrast, we hold that the EA did violate NEPA by omitting
consideration of the Midnight Restoration Project in its
cumulative effects analysis. We reverse and remand for the
district court to enter an appropriate order requiring the
Forest Service to remedy the deficiency in the EA for the
Twisp Restoration Project and to determine whether, in light
of its revised cumulative effects analysis, an EIS is
necessary.
     Because this is a mixed judgment, each party shall bear
its own costs.
  AFFIRMED IN PART; REVERSED IN PART;
REMANDED.
